.TH CHNARITHMETICDECODE 1 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
chnarithmeticdecode \- adaptive arithmetic decoding
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chnarithmeticdecode
.I infile
.I channelfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B chnarithmeticdecode
decodes bitstreams produced by
.BR chnarithmeticencode (1) 
and outputs a 
.I channelfile
(CHN format).
.B chnarithmeticdecode
figures out the order of the adaptive model from header bytes in
.IR infile .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR chnarithmeticencode (1),
.BR chnentropy (1),
.BR QccPackENT (3),
.BR QccPack (3)

I. A. Witten, R. M. Neal, and J. G. Cleary,
"Arithmetic Coding For Data Compression,"
.IR "Communications of the ACM" ,
vol. 30, no. 6, pp. 520-540, June 1987.

T. M. Cover and J. T. Thomas, 
.IR "Elements of Information Theory" .
New York: John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 1991.

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them and/or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
