.TH CHNAGOLOMBDECODE 1 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
chnagolombdecode \- adaptive Golomb (Langdon) decoding of a channel
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chnagolombdecode
.I bitstream
.I channel
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B chnagolombdecode
decodes a
.IR bitstream
produced by
.BR chnagolombencode (1) 
and outputs a 
.I channel
(CHN format).
.LP
.B chnagolombdecode
calls
.BR QccENTAdaptiveGolombDecodeChannel (3)
to do the actual adaptive Golomb decoding.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR chnagolombencode (1),
.BR QccENTAdaptiveGolombEncodeChannel (3),
.BR QccENTAdaptiveGolombDecodeChannel (3),
.BR chnentropy (1),
.BR QccPackENT (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.LP
G. G. Langdon, Jr., "An adaptive run-length coding algorithm,"
.IR "IBM Technical Disclosure Bulletin" ,
vol. 26, no. 7B, pp. 3783-3785, December 1983.

S. W. Golomb, "Run-Length Encodings,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Information Theory" ,
vol. 12, pp. 399-401, July 1966.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Yufei Yuan <yuanyufei@hotmail.com>

Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them and/or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
