.TH CHNAGOLOMBENCODE 1 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
chnagolombencode \- adaptive Golomb (Langdon) encoding of a channel
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chnagolombencode
.RB "[\|" \-s "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-vo "\|]"
.I channel
.I bitstream
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-s
Silent mode (no printed output).
.TP
.B \-vo
Print only the value of the rate to stdout (terse output).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B chnagolombencode
implements adaptive Golomb coding of the channel sequence,
.IR channel 
(CHN format).
.B chnagolombencode
calls
.BR QccENTAdaptiveGolombEncodeChannel (3),
which encodes the channel symbols, and outputs binary
codewords to the output
.IR bitstream .
.LP
.B chnagolombencode
initially outputs a few bytes of header information
(original number of symbols in 
.IR channel ,
symbol alphabet size) to
.IR bitstream .
The byte-packed bitstream produced by the adaptive Golomb coding follows.
.LP
Normally,
.B chnagolombencode
prints to 
.B stdout 
the rate achieved by the adaptive Golomb coding, expressed in terms
of bits per channel symbol.  This output may be suppressed by the
.B \-s
option (silent mode).
The
.B \-vo
option indicates that only the value of the rate is to be
printed (terse output).  The
.B \-s
option overrides the
.B \-vo
option.
.SH "NOTES"
.B chnagolombencode
removes all null channel symbols from the
.IR channel
with a call to
.BR QccChannelRemoveNullSymbols (3)
prior to adaptive Golomb coding.
.LP
Golomb coding originated in the 1966 paper by Golomb; the adaptive
variant described here is due to Langdon.
Apparently, this adaptive Golomb coding is also known as
runlength/Rice coding.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR chnagolombdecode (1),
.BR QccENTAdaptiveGolombEncodeChannel (3),
.BR QccENTAdaptiveGolombDecodeChannel (3),
.BR QccChannelRemoveNullSymbols (3),
.BR chnentropy (1),
.BR QccPackENT (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.LP
G. G. Langdon, Jr., "An adaptive run-length coding algorithm,"
.IR "IBM Technical Disclosure Bulletin" ,
vol. 26, no. 7B, pp. 3783-3785, December 1983.

S. W. Golomb, "Run-Length Encodings,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Information Theory" ,
vol. 12, pp. 399-401, July 1966.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Yufei Yuan <yuanyufei@hotmail.com>

Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them and/or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
