.TH CHNGOLOMBENCODE 1 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
chngolombencode \- Golomb encoding of a binary channel
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chngolombencode
.RB "[\|" \-s "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-vo "\|]"
.RB [ -p
.IR probability ]
.RB [ -m
.IR m ]
.I channel
.I bitstream
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-s
Silent mode (no printed output).
.TP
.B \-vo
Print only the value of the rate to stdout (terse output).
.TP
.BI \-p " probability "
Probability of the favorable event (run symbol).
.I p
>= 1/2.
.TP
.BI \-m " m "
The
.I m
that satisfies
.IR p ^ m
= 1/2.
.I m
>= 1.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B chngolombencode
implements Golomb coding of the binary channel sequence,
.IR channel " (CHN format)."
.BR chngolombencode " calls"
.BR QccENTGolombEncodeChannel (3),
which encodes the channel symbols, and outputs codewords to the output
.IR bitstream .
.LP
.BR chngolombencode " initially outputs a few bytes of header information "
.RI "(original number of symbols in " channel ,
.RI " symbol alphabet size, and " m ") to
.IR bitstream .
The byte-packed bitstream produced by the Golomb coding follows.
.LP
.RB "Normally, " chngolombencode " prints to " stdout 
the rate achieved by the Golomb coding, expressed in terms
of bits per channel symbol.  This output may be suppressed by the
.B \-s
option (silent mode).
The
.B \-vo
option indicates that only the value of the rate is to be
printed (terse output).  The
.B \-s
option overrides the
.B \-vo
option.
.SH "NOTES"
.RI "When neither " p " nor " m " is specified,
the probability of the favorable event is estimated automatically.
.LP
.BR chngolombencode " removes all null channel symbols from the"
.IR channel
with a call to
.BR QccChannelRemoveNullSymbols (3)
prior to Golomb coding.
.LP
Golomb coding originated in the 1966 paper by Golomb, which is classic, short, and beautifully written
with a sense of humour.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR chngolombdecode (1),
.BR QccENTGolombEncodeChannel (3),
.BR QccENTGolombDecodeChannel (3),
.BR QccChannelRemoveNullSymbols (3),
.BR chnentropy (1),
.BR QccPackENT (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.LP
S. W. Golomb, "Run-Length Encodings,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Information Theory" ,
vol. 12, pp. 399-401, July 1966.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Yufei Yuan <yuanyufei@hotmail.com>

Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them and/or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
