.TH CHNGOLOMBDECODE 1 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
chngolombdecode \- Golomb decoding of a binary channel
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chngolombdecode
.I bitstream
.I channel
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.BR chngolombdecode " decodes a"
.IR bitstream " produced by"
.BR chngolombencode (1) 
and outputs a 
.IR channel " (CHN format)."
.LP
.BR chnagolombdecode " calls"
.BR QccENTGolombDecodeChannel (3)
to do the actual Golomb decoding.
.SH "NOTES"
Golomb coding originated in the 1966 paper by Golomb, which is classic, short, and beautifully written
with a sense of humour.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR chngolombencode (1),
.BR QccENTGolombEncodeChannel (3),
.BR QccENTGolombDecodeChannel (3),
.BR chnentropy (1),
.BR QccPackENT (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.LP
S. W. Golomb, "Run-Length Encodings,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Information Theory" ,
vol. 12, pp. 399-401, July 1966.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Yufei Yuan <yuanyufei@hotmail.com>

Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them and/or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
