.TH CHNHUFFMANDECODE 1 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
chnhuffmandecode \- Huffman decoding
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chnhuffmandecode
.I bitstream
.I huffman_table
.I channel
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B chnhuffmandecode
decodes a
.IR bitstream
produced by
.BR chnhuffmanencode (1) 
and outputs a 
.I channel
(CHN format).
.I huffman_table
is the Huffman code table that was designed and output by
.BR chnhuffmanencode (1)
for the
.IR bitstream ;
this Huffman code table is used by
.B chnhuffmandecode
to decipher the codewords in
.IR bitstream .
.LP
.B chnhuffmandecode
calls
.BR QccENTHuffmanDecodeChannel (3)
to do the actual Huffman decoding.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR chnhuffmanencode (1),
.BR QccENTHuffmanEncodeChannel (3),
.BR QccENTHuffmanDecodeChannel (3),
.BR chnentropy (1),
.BR QccENTHuffmanTable (3),
.BR QccPackENT (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.LP
D. A. Huffman, "A Method for the Construction of Minimum-Redundancy Codes,"
.IR "Proceedings of the IRE" ,
vol. 40, pp. 1098-1101, September 1952.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them and/or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
