.TH CHNHUFFMANENCODE 1 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
chnhuffmanencode \- Huffman encoding of a channel
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chnhuffmanencode
.RB "[\|" \-s "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-vo "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-d 
.IR vector\_dimension "\|]"
.I channel
.I bitstream
.I huffman_table
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-s
Silent mode (no printed output).
.TP
.B \-vo
Print only the value of the rate to stdout (terse output).
.TP
.BI \-d " vector\_dimension"
Print rate in terms of bits per vector component rather than
bits per channel symbol.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B chnhuffmanencode
implements Huffman coding of the channel sequence,
.IR channel 
(CHN format).
.B chnhuffmanencode
calls
.BR QccENTHUffmanEncodeChannel (3),
which designs the Huffman code table (based upon the observed probability
of occurrence of symbols in the
.IR channel ),
encodes the channel symbols, and outputs binary
Huffman codewords to the output
.IR bitstream .
.B chnhuffmanencode
outputs the Huffman code designed for the
.IR channel
to
.IR huffman_table .
.LP
.B chnhuffmanencode
initially outputs a few bytes of header information
(original number of symbols in 
.IR channel ,
symbol alphabet size, and
huffman-coding order) to
.IR bitstream .
The byte-packed bitstream produced by the Huffman coding follows.
.LP
Normally,
.B chnarithemticencode
prints to 
.B stdout 
the rate achieved by the Huffman coding, expressed in terms
of bits per channel symbol.  This output may be suppressed by the
.B \-s
option (silent mode).
The
.B \-vo
option indicates that only the value of the rate is to be
printed (terse output).  The
.B \-s
option overrides the
.B \-vo
option.
If option 
.B \-d 
is given, the rate is printed as bits per vector component (i.e.,
it is the bit rate of the Huffman coding
divided by 
.IR vector\_dimension ).  
For example, the
.B \-d 
option gives a convenient way to calculate the bit rate, in bits per
original source symbol, when the
.IR channel
corresponds to indices output
from a vector quantizer (see 
.BR vqencode (1)).
Note: the specification of the
.B \-d
option in no way affects the operation of the Huffman encoder; it affects
only the printed output of the rate.
.SH "NOTES"
.B chnhuffmanencode
removes all null channel symbols from the
.IR channel
with a call to
.BR QccChannelRemoveNullSymbols (3)
prior to Huffman coding.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR chnhuffmandecode (1),
.BR QccENTHuffmanEncodeChannel (3),
.BR QccENTHuffmanDecodeChannel (3),
.BR QccChannelRemoveNullSymbols (3),
.BR chnentropy (1),
.BR vqencode (1),
.BR QccENTHuffmanTable (3),
.BR QccPackENT (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.LP
D. A. Huffman, "A Method for the Construction of Minimum-Redundancy Codes,"
.IR "Proceedings of the IRE" ,
vol. 40, pp. 1098-1101, September 1952.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them and/or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
