.TH QCCVIDMOTIONVECTORSTABLE 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccVIDMotionVectorsTable \- data structure
for the Huffman coding of motion vectors as specified in the H.261
standard
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccVIDMotionVectorsTableInitialize(QccVIDMotionVectorsTable *" table );
.br
.BI "int QccVIDMotionVectorsTableCreate(QccVIDMotionVectorsTable *" table );
.br
.BI "void QccVIDMotionVectorsTableFree(QccVIDMotionVectorsTable *" table );
.SH DESCRIPTION
QccPack provides data structure
.B QccVIDMotionVectorsTable
for representing the encoding and decoding tables used for
the coding of motion-vector data (MVD) as specified in
the H.261 video-coding standard. Specifically, the data
placed in the tables corresponds to Table 3/H.261 in Sec. 4.2.3.4
of the H.261 standard.
.SH "DATA STRUCTURE"
The
.B QccVIDMotionVectorsTable
data structure is defined as:
.RS
.nf

typedef struct
{
  QccENTHuffmanTable encode_table;
  QccENTHuffmanTable decode_table;
} QccVIDMotionVectorsTable;
.fi
.RE
.LP
The fields of
.B QccVIDMotionVectorsTable
are as follows:
.TP
.I encode_table
The Huffman table for encoding.
.TP
.IR decoding_table
The Huffman table for decoding.
.SH "ROUTINES"
.B QccVIDMotionVectorsTableInitialize()
should be called before any use of a
.B QccVIDMotionVectorsTable
structure.
.B QccVIDMotionVectorsTableInitialize()
initializes the fields of
.I table
with a call to
.BR QccENTHuffmanTableInitialize (3).
.LP
.B QccVIDMotionVectorsTableCreate()
calls
.BR QccENTHuffmanTableCreateEncodeTable (3)
and
.BR QccENTHuffmanTableCreateDecodeTable (3)
with the appropriate data to create the encoding
and decoding tables.
.LP
.BR QccVIDMotioVectorsTableFree()
free space allocated to the encoding and decoding tables.
.LP
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
These routines return 0 on success, and 1 on failure.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccVIDMotionVectorsEncode (3),
.BR QccVIDMotionVectorsDecode (3),
.BR QccENTHuffmanTable (3),
.BR QccPackVID (3),
.BR QccPackENT (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.LP
ITU-T,
.IR "Video Coding for Audiovisual Services at p x 64 kbit/s" ,
March 1993, ITU-T Recommendation H.261.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

