.TH QCCENTGOLOMBENCODECHANNEL 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccENTGolombEncodeChannel, QccENTGolombDecodeChannel \- 
Golomb encoding and decoding of binary channels
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccENTGolombEncodeChannel(const QccChannel *" channel ", QccBitBuffer *" output_buffer ", const float *" p ", const int *" m ");
.br
.BI "int QccENTGolombDecodeChannel(QccBitBuffer *" input_buffer ", const QccChannel *" channel ");
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR QccENTGolombEncodeChannel() " encodes the binary symbol stream in "
.IR channel " using adaptive Golomb coding, outputting the binary codewords to "
.IR output_buffer .
.IR channel " should not contain any null symbols (see "
.BR QccChannel (3));
use
.BR QccChannelRemoveNullSymbols (3)
to remove null symbols if needed.
.BR QccENTGolombEncode (3)
.RI " is then called to produce the binary coding of the " channel .
.LP
.BR QccENTGolombDecodeChannel() " performs decoding of the bits in the bitstream "
.IR input_buffer ,
producing an output stream of binary channel symbols that are stored in
.IR channel .
.IR channel " must be allocated prior to calling "
.BR QccENTGolombDecodeChannel() ;
.BR QccChannelGetBlockSize (3)
is called to find out how many channel symbols are to be decoded from
.IR input_buffer .
.BR QccENTGolombDecodeChannel "() calls "
.BR QccENTGolombDecode (3)
to actually do the Golomb decoding.
.SH "NOTES"
.BR QccBitBufferFlush "(3) must be called after the call to "
.BR QccENTGolombEncodeChannel() " to ensure that the last few bits of the "
encoded bitstream are actually written to the output file.
.LP
.BR QccENTGolombEncode() 
will fail if it encounters an invalid symbol (i.e., a symbol that is neither 0 or 1).
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Both routines return 0 on success, and 1 on failure.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccENTGolombEncode (3),
.BR QccENTGolombDecode (3),
.BR QccChannel (3),
.BR QccPackENT (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.LP
S. W. Golomb, "Run-Length Encodings,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Information Theory" ,
vol. 12, pp. 399-401, July 1966.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Yufei Yuan <yuanyufei@hotmail.com>

Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
