.TH QCCALPHA 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccAlphaOpaque, QccAlphaTransparent, QccAlphaTranslucent \-
transparency values
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI QccAlphaOpaque( alpha )
.br
.BI QccAlphaTransparent( alpha )
.br
.BI QccAlphaTranslucent( alpha )
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR QccAlphaOpaque() ,
.BR QccAlphaTransparent() ,
and
.BR QccAlphaTranslucent()
are macros for evaluting the transparency of the
.I alpha
argument.
Values less than or equal to
.BR QCCALPHA_TRANSPARENT
are considered transparent, and
.BR QccAlphaTransparent()
will evaluate to 1 for such
.I alpha
values, and 0 otherwise.
Values greater than or equal to
.BR QCCALPHA_OPAQUE
are considered to be opaque, and
.BR QccAphaOpaque()
will evaluate to 1 for such
.I alpha
values, and 0 otherwise.
Values greater than
.BR QCCALPHA_TRANSPARENT
and less than
.BR QCCALPHA_OPAQUE
are considered to be partially transparent, or translucent, and
.BR QccAlphaTranslucent()
will evaluate to 1 for such
.I alpha
values, and 0 otherwise.
.LP
Often
.I alpha
is considered to represent a pixel from a grayscale image; in that
case,
.BR QCCALPHA_TRANSPARENT
would be full black,
.BR QCCALPHA_OPAQUE
would be full white,
and values between the two would be some shade of gray.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccPack (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
