.TH QCCCHANNELREMOVENULLSYMBOLS 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccChannelGetNumNullSymbols(const QccChannel *" channel );
.br
.BI "int QccChannelRemoveNullSymbols(QccChannel *" channel );
.SH DESCRIPTION
The normal symbols in a
.B QccChannel
structure are nonnegative integers.
However, QccPack allows a special symbol,
.BR QCCCHANNEL_NULLSYMBOL ,
defined as -1,
to denote a null symbol.
Such a null symbol would indicate the absence of a symbol at that
particular location in the channel.
.LP
.B QccChannelGetNumNullSymbols()
counts the number of null symbols occurring in the current block of
symbols
.IR channel -> channel_symbols .
.LP
.B QccChannelRemoveNullSymbols()
removes null symbols from
.IR channel .
The channel symbols are scanned, and only the non-null symbols are
retained.
.IR channel -> channel_length
is reduced by the number of null symbols originally in the
channel, and
.IR channel -> channel_symbols
is reallocated to reflect this new channel length.
Note: block-access channels are not allowed;
.B QccChannelRemoveNullSymbols()
requires that
.IR channel -> access_block_size
be
.BR QCCCHANNEL_ACCESSWHOLEFILE .
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
These routines return 0 on successful completion, 1 if an error occurs
while reading the file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccChannel (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.


