.TH QCCCHANNELADDSYMBOLTOCHANNEL 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccChannelAddSymbolToChannel
\- add a symbol to channel
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccChannelAddSymbolToChannel(QccChannel *" channel ", int " symbol );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B QccChannelAddSymbolToChannel()
adds a symbol to the channel by incrementing its length and inserting
the new symbol at the end of the channel.
.LP
.B QccChannelAddSymbolToChannel()
does not work of channels being accesed in blocks; consequently,
.IR channel -> access_block_size
must be
.BR QCCCHANNEL_ACCESSWHOLEFILE .
.IR channel -> channel_length
must give the current length of the channel.
.B QccChannelSymbolAddToChannel()
increments
.IR channel -> channel_length 
and
.IR channel -> channel_symbols
is adjusted to account for this increased length.
If the channel originally had zero length (i.e.,
.IR channel -> channel_symbols
equaled
.BR NULL ),
then
.IR channel -> channel_symbols
is allocated to a length-1 channel; otherwise,
.IR channel -> channel_symbols
is reallocated to the new channel length.
The new symbol,
.IR symbol ,
is placed at the end of the channel,
.IR channel -> channel_symbols [ channel -> channel_length " - 1]."
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On successful completion, 0 is returned.  On error, 1 is returned.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccChannel (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

