.TH QCCDATASETCALCVECTORPOWERS 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccDatasetCalcVectorPowers
\- calculate the power (squared norm) of the vectors of a dataset
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccDatasetCalcVectorPowers(const QccDataset *" dataset ", QccVector " vector_power );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B QccDatasetCalcVectorPowers()
calculates the squared norm (vector power) of each vector in
.IR dataset -> vectors .
These vector powers are returned as a vector in
.IR vector_power .
.I vector_power
is assumed to be allocated with space sufficient to store the
vector powers; use
.BR QccDatasetGetBlockSize (3)
to find out how many vector-power values will be returned.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, 0 is returned.  On error, 1 is returned.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccDataset (3),
.BR QccVectorNorm (3),
.BR QccDatasetGetBlockSize (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.SH NOTES
For datasets being accessed via block-based access,
.B QccDatasetCalcVectorPowers()
works on only the current block of the dataset.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
