.TH QCCDATASETMSE 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccDatasetMSE
\- calculate mean squared error (MSE) between two datasets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "double QccDatasetMSE(const QccDataset " *dataset1 ", const QccDataset *" dataset2 );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B QccDatasetMSE()
calculates the mean squared error (MSE) between the vector arrays of
two datasets.
The
.I vector_dimension
and
.I access_block_size
of the datasets must be the same.
.LP
The MSE is calculated as follows.
For each
.IR i ,
the vector difference is calculated between
.IR dataset1 -> vectors [ i ]
and
.IR dataset2 -> vectors [ i ].
The square of this norm is calculated to give the squared distance,
or squared error, between the two vectors.
Finally, the squared error for all vectors is summed and divided by
the block size to give the mean squared error.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, the MSE value (necessarily a nonnegative floating-point number)
is returned.  On error, -1.0 is returned.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccDataset (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.SH NOTES
For datasets being accessed via block-based access,
.B QccDatasetMSE()
calculates the MSE on only the current blocks of each dataset.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
