.TH QCCDATASETSETMAXMINVALUES 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccDatasetSetMaxMinValues
\- set maximum and minimum vector component values for dataset
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccDatasetSetMaxMinValues(QccDataset *" dataset );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B QccDatasetSetMaxMinValues()
scans the vector array
.IR dataset -> vectors
to find the maximum and minimum vector components contained in the array.
These values are returned in
.IR dataset -> max_val
and
.IR dataset -> min_val ,
respectively.
.LP
Values for
.IR dataset -> num_vectors  ,
.IR dataset -> access_block_size ,
and
.IR dataset -> vector_dimension
must be set appropriately, and
.IR dataset -> vectors
must be allocated
prior to calling
.BR QccDatasetSetMaxMinValues() .
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, 0 is returned.  On error, 1 is returned.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccDataset (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.SH NOTES
.B QccDatasetSetMaxMinValues()
works only over the current block of the dataset as contained in
.IR dataset -> vectors .
For a dataset being accessed in blocks,
.B QccDatasetSetMaxMinValues()
will not find the maximum and minimum values over the entire dataset
(which is probably what is desired), but rather the
values over the current block.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
