.TH QCCFILEPATHSEARCH 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccFilePathSearch, QccFilePathSearchOpenRead \- searching operations for
a filename in a path
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccFilePathSearch(const QccString " pathlist ", const QccString " filename ", QccString " found_pathname );
.br
.BI "FILE *QccFilePathSearchOpenRead(QccString " filename ", const char *" environment_path_variable ", const char *" default_path_list );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B QccFilePathSearch()
searches for a file named 
.I filename
in the path specified by 
.IR pathlist .
.IR pathlist
is a string of directory names separated by colons, in a manner similar
to that used by the $PATH environment variable in various shells.
If the file is found in one of the specified directories, the full 
path to the file is returned in
.IR found_pathname .  
Additionally, 
.B QccFilePathSearch()
returns 0.  If the file is not found,
.B QccFilePathSearch()
returns 1, and
.I found_pathname
is set to the zero-length string.
.B QccFilePathSearch()
assumes that space is allocated for
.I found_pathname
prior to the function call.
.LP
.B QccFilePathSearchOpenRead()
is similar to
.B QccFilePathSearch()
except that the path to use is retrieved from the environment variable
specified by
.IR environment_path_variable ,
and the file, if found, is opened for reading.
A 
.B FILE
pointer to the opened file is returned.
If the file is not found,
.B QccFilePathSearchOpenRead()
returns a 
.B NULL
pointer.
If the file is found, the full path to the found file is returned in
.IR filename ,
overwriting the original filename passed to the routine.
If
.I environment_path_variable
is
.BR NULL ,
or the environment variable is not found in the environment,
then
.I default_path_list
is used as the path in the search. If, in turn,
.I default_path_list
is
.BR NULL ,
then the current directory (i.e., a path of ".") is used
as the search path.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccFileOpen (3),
.BR QccPack (3),
.BR glob (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
