.TH QCCFILTERMATRIXSEPARABLE 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccFilterMatrixSeparable \- perform separable FIR filtering of a
two-dimensional signal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccFilterMatrixSeparable(const QccMatrix " input_matrix ", QccMatrix " output_matrix ", int " num_rows ", int " num_cols ", const QccFilter *" horizontal_filter ", const QccFilter *" vertical_filter ", int " boundary_extension );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B QccFilterMatrixSeparable()
implements the separable two-dimensional FIR filtering of a 
two-dimensional signal.
.I horizontal_filter
gives the one-dimensional FIR filter for filtering along the
rows (i.e., in the horizontal direction);
.I vertical_filter
gives the one-dimensional FIR filter for filtering along the
columns (i.e., in the vertical direction).
.I input_matrix
is the two-dimensional input signal (of
.B QccMatrix
data type, size
.I num_rows
rows by
.I num_cols
columns) to be filtered, and
.I output_matrix
is the resulting filtered signal.
Sufficient storage space for
.I output_matrix
must be allocated
(by a call to
.BR QccMatrixAlloc (3))
prior to calling
.BR QccFilterMatrixSeparable() .
.LP
The FIR filtering operation is implemented by
time-domain convolutions, one for each row and column in the
input signal.
These convolutions are implemented by calls to
.BR QccFilterVector (3)
for each row and column.
.I boundary_extension
informs
.B QccFilterMatrixSeparable()
of the method to employ to handle the left and right signal boundaries in
these convolutions.
See 
.BR QccFilterVector (3)
for the possible values of
.IR boundary_extension .
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.B QccFilterMatrixSeparable()
returns 0 on success, 1 on failure.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccFilterVector (3),
.BR QccFilter (3),
.BR QccMatrix (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
