.TH QCCVERSION 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccSetUserHeader,
QccGetQccPackVersion,
QccCompareQccPackVersions,
QccPrintQccPackVersion
\- QccPack version informaton
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "void QccSetUserHeader(const QccString " user_header );
.br
.BI "void QccGetQccPackVersion(int *" major ", int *" minor ", QccString "
.IB date );
.br
.BI "int QccCompareQccPackVersions(int " major1 ", int " minor1, int " major2 ", int " minor2 );
.br
.BI "void QccPrintQccPackVersion(FILE *" outfile );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B QccGetQccPackVersion()
retrieves the
.I major
revision number, the
.I minor
revision number, and the
.I date
of the QccPack library.
.LP
.B QccCompareQccPackVersions()
compares two sets of version numbers (e.g., two sets of major/minor
revision numbers such as those returned by
.BR QccGetQccPackVersion() ).
If the
.IR major1 / minor1
represents an earlier version of QccPack than the
.IR major2 / minor2
pair, 
.B QccCompareQccPackVersions()
returns -1; if
.IR major1 / minor1
is later than
.IR major2 / minor2 ,
.B QccCompareQccPackVersions()
returns 1; and if
both sets of version numbers are the same,
.B QccCompareQccPackVersions()
returns 0.
.LP
.B QccPrintQccPackVersion()
converts the major revision number, the minor revision number, and the
date of the QccPack library to a nicely formatted string and prints this
string to
.IR outfile .
If a user header has been set by a previous call to
.BR QccSetUserHeader() ,
then the formatted message printed by
.B QccPrintQccPackVersion()
starts off with this user-defined header.  Thus, user programs can
produce an identifying message (program name, copyright, etc.) to be
output along with QccPack information.  Note that the usage message
produced by 
.BR QccParseParameters (3)
on a parsing error includes a call to
.BR QccPrintQccPackVersion() ,
so any defined user header is also included in this usage message.
Only one user header can be defined by a program.
.B QccSetUserHeader()
must be called
.I after
.BR QccInit (3)
but
.I before
.BR QccParseParameters (3).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccParseParameters (3),
.BR QccInit (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
