.TH QCCINIT 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccInit \- QccPack library initialization
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "void QccInit(int " argc ", char *" argv "[]);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B QccInit()
initializes the QccPack library routines for use.  It should be called
at the start of each program making use of the QccPack libraries.
.I argc
and
.I argv
contain the command-line parameters from
.BR main() ;
however, no command-line parsing is performed by
.BR QccInit() 
(for command-line parsing, use
.BR QccParseParameters (3));
rather, the name of the calling program is extracted from 
.IR argv .
A
.B NULL
pointer can optionally be passed for
.IR argv ;
in this case, QccPack will not know the name of the current program, and
.BR QccGetProgramName (3)
will return in error if called.
.LP
Calls to
.BR QccInit()
subsequent to the first call (e.g., from other threads in multithreaded
applications)
have no effect other than extracting the 
program name again from 
.IR argv .
.SH EXAMPLE
The typical use of 
.B QccInit()
is illustrated below.
Note that
.B QccInit()
is called as the
first statement of the 
.B main()
routine.
.RS
.nf

#include "libQccPack.h"

#define USG_STRING "%s:infile"

QccString Filename;

int main(int argc, char *argv[])
{
	QccInit(&argc, argv);

	if (QccParseParameters(argc, argv, USG_STRING, Filename))
	   QccErrorExit();

	<user code goes here>

	QccExit;
}
.fi
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccParseParameters (3),
.BR QccGetProgramName (3),
.BR QccExit (3),
.BR QccErrorExit (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
