.TH QCCMATRIXINVERSE 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccMatrixInverse
\- matrix inverse
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccMatrixInverse(const QccMatrix " matrix ", QccMatrix " matrix_inverse ", int " num_rows ", int " num_cols );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B QccMatrixInverse()
calculates the inverse of
.IR matrix
which must be square (i.e.,
.IR num_rows
=
.IR num_cols )
and nonsingular.
.LP
The inverse is returned in
.IR matrix_inverse
which must be a square matrix the same size as
.IR matrix
allocated prior to calling
.BR QccMatrixInverse() .
.SH "IMPLEMENTATION"
The QccPack implementation of the matrix inverse is essentially a call to
.BR gsl_linalg_LU_decomp (3)
to perform an LU decomposition followed by
.BR gsl_linalg_LU_invert (3)
to conduct the actual inversion. These routines are
part of the GNU Scientific Library (GSL). As a consequence, if GSL
is not available,
.BR QccMatrixInverse()
will not work.
.LP
.BR gsl_linalg_LU_det (3)
is used to calculate the determinant of the matrix to check for
nonsingularity before calculating the inverse.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gsl_linalg_LU_decomp (3),
.BR gsl_linalg_LU_invert (3),
.BR gsl_linalg_LU_det (3),
.BR QccMatrix (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
