.TH QCCMATRIXDCT 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccMatrixDCT,
QccMatrixInverseDCT
\- two-dimensional discrete cosine transform (DCT) and inverse transform 
of a matrix
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccMatrixDCT(const QccMatrix " input_block ", QccMatrix " output_block ", int " num_rows ", int " num_cols );
.br
.BI "int QccMatrixInverseDCT(const QccMatrix " input_block ", QccMatrix " output_block ", int " num_rows ", int " num_cols );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B QccMatrixDCT()
calculates the two-dimensional discrete cosine transform (2D DCT) of
.IR input_block ,
returning the result in
.IR output_block .
.LP
.B QccMatrixDCT()
calculates the 2D DCT of
.IR input_block
by first taking a one-dimensional DCT along each
row of the matrix followed by 
the one-dimensional DCT along each column.
.BR QccVectorDCT (3)
is used to calculate the one-dimensional DCT in each case.
.LP
.B QccMatrixInverseDCT()
calculates the two-dimensional inverse DCT of
.IR input_block ,
returning the result in
.IR output_block .
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Both
.B QccMatrixDCT()
and
.B QccMatrixInverseDCT()
return 0 on success, 1 on error.
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
These routines implement the type-II DCT applied separably;
the implementation is slow, and s based on calls to
.BR QccVectorDCT (3)
and
.BR QccVectorInverseDCT (3)
which, in turn, call directly to
.BR cos (3).
Most applications should probably use
.BR QccFastDCTForwardTransform2D (3)
and
.BR QccFastDCTInverseTransform2D (3)
which are based on a faster FFT-based implementation, but
rely on the GNU Scientific Library (GSL) for the FFT.
.BR QccMatrixDCT()
and
.BR QccMatrixInverseDCT()
are provided for use when GSL is not available.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccVectorDCT (3),
.BR QccFastDCTForwardTransform2D (3),
.BR QccMatrix (3),
.BR QccPack (3)

A. K. Jain,
.IR "Fundamentals of Digital Image Processing" .
Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1989.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
