.TH QCCPOINT 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccPointPrint,
QccPointCopy,
QccPointAffineTransform,
\- miscellaneous 2D point routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "void QccPointPrint(const QccPoint *" point );
.br
.sp
.BI "void QccPointCopy(QccPoint *" point1 ", const QccPoint *" point2 );
.br
.sp
.BI "void QccPointAffineTransform(const QccPoint *" point1 ", QccPoint *" point2 ", QccMatrix " affine_transform );
.SH DESCRIPTION
QccPack provides the
.B QccPoint
data structure to represent a point in the 2D plane.
.SH "DATA STRUCTURE"
.B QccPoint
data structure is defined as:
.RS
.nf

typedef struct
{
  double x;
  double y;
} QccPoint;
.fi
.RE
.LP
The fields of
.B QccPoint
are as follows:
.TP
.I x
The horizontal coordinate of the point.
.TP
.I y
The vertical coordinate of the point.
.SH "ROUTINES"
.BR QccPointPrint()
prints
.I point
to
.BR stdout .
.LP
.BR QccPointCopy()
copies
.IR point2
to
.IR point1 .
.LP
.BR QccPointAffineTransform()
passes
.IR point1
through the
affine transform given by
.IR affine_transform ,
returning the resulting, transform point as
.IR point2 .
.IR affine_transform
is assumed to be a 3 x 3
matrix representing the affine transform in homogeneous coordinates.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccPack (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
