.TH QCCSTRING 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccStringMakeNull, QccStringNull, QccConvertToQccString \- string operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "void QccStringMakeNull(QccString " qccstring );
.br
.BI "int QccStringNull(const QccString " qccstring );
.br
.BI "void QccConvertToQccString(QccString " qccstring ", const char *" str );
.br
.BI "void QccStringCopy(QccString " qccstring1 ", const QccString " qccstring2 );
.br
.BI "void QccStringSprintf(QccString " qccstring ", const char *" format ", ...);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
QccPack library routines use strings of type 
.B QccString
which is defined in as
.RS
.nf
typedef char QccString[QCCSTRINGLEN + 1];
.fi
.RE
.LP
.B QccStringMakeNull()
sets
.I qccstring
to zero length.
.LP
.B QccStringNull()
returns 1 if
.I qccstring
is a NULL pointer or has zero length and 0 otherwise.
.LP
.B QccConvertToQccString()
converts a character array into type
.B QccString
which entails copying characters from
.I str
to
.I qccstring
up to 
.B QCCSTRINGLEN
characters and ensuring that
.I qccstring
is NULL-terminated.
.LP
.B QccStringCopy()
copies
.I qccstring2
to
.IR qccstring1 .
.LP
.B QccStringSprintf()
is a wrapper around
.BR sprintf (3).
If 
.BR snprintf (3)
exists, it is called to ensure that the string written to
.I qccstring
does not exceed the length of
.IR qccstring .
Otherwise,
.BR sprintf (3)
is called to write the string to
.I qccstring
and a buffer overflow may occur if the string is too long.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccPack (3),
.BR sprintf (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
