.TH QCCENV 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccSetEnv, QccGetEnv \- environment-variable operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccSetEnv(const char *" environment_variable ", const char *" value );
.br
.BI "int QccGetEnv(const char *" environment_variable ", QccString " returned_value );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B QccSetEnv()
sets the environment variable whose name is in string
.I environment_variable
to the value contained in string
.IR value ,
if the specified environment variable does not already exist in the
environment.  If the environment variable does already exist in the
environment, 
.B QccSetEnv()
does nothing.
.LP
.B QccGetEnv()
returns the value of the specified
.I environment_variable
as the string
.IR returned_value .
The
.I returned_value
is truncated to 
.B QCCSTRINGLEN
characters, if necessary.
Space for 
.I returned_value
must be allocated prior to calling
.BR QccGetEnv() .
.B QccGetEnv() will return an error if the specified
.I environment_variable
does not exist in the environment.
.SH "RETURNED VALUES"
These routines return 0 on success, and 1 on failure.
In addition, upon error,
.B QccGetEnv()
sets
.I returned_value
to be a zero-length string.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccString (3),
.BR QccPack (3),
.BR getenv (3),
.BR putenv (3),
.BR environ (5)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

