.TH QCCTIME 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccTime \- timer routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccTimeTic();"
.br
.BI "int QccTimeToc(double *" time );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR QccTimeTic()
and
.BR QccTimeToc()
implement a method of measuring execution time.
.BR QccTimeTic()
starts the timer;
.BR QccTimeToc()
returns the amount of time elapsed since the previous
call to
.BR QccTimeTic() .
The elapsed time is returned in
.IR time
which represents the time in seconds as a floating-point value.
.LP
Each call to
.BR QccTimeToc()
returns the elapsed time since the last call to
.BR QccTimeTic() .
If
.BR QccTimeTic()
has not been called previously,
.BR QccTimeToc()
returns the time since the program started running.
.LP
.BR QccTimeTic()
and
.BR QccTimeToc()
rely on
.BR gettimeofday (2)
to return the current time.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
These routines return 0 on success and 1 on failure.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gettimeofday (2),
.BR QccPack (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
