.TH QCCVECTORSORTCOMPONENTS 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccVectorSortComponents \- quicksort of vector components
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccVectorSortComponents(const QccVector " vector ", QccVector " sorted_vector ", int " vector_dimension ", int " sort_direction ", int *" auxiliary_list );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B QccVectorSortComponents()
performs a quicksort of the components of
.I vector
with the resulting sorted vector being returned in
.IR sorted_vector ,
which must be allocated prior to calling
.BR QccVectorSortComponents() .
The type of sort,
ascending or descending,
is specified by giving
.I sort_direction
the values
.B QCCVECTOR_SORTASCENDING
or
.BR QCCVECTOR_SORTDESCENDING ,
respectively.
.LP
.B QccVectorSortComponents()
can permute an
.I auxiliary_list
of integers in the same order as the
.IR sorted_vector .
.I auxiliary_list
must contain
.I vector_dimension
integers.  If no
.I auxiliary_list
permutation is desired, 
.I auxiliary_list
should be a
.B NULL
pointer.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccPack (3)
.SH NOTES
.B QccVectorSortComponents()
is based on the QS2I1D routine of the SLATEC Common
Mathematical library, a freely redistributable package
developed and maintained by
a consortium of Department of Energy and Department of Defense
national laboratories.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

