.TH QCCVECTORDCT 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccVectorDCT, QccVectorInverseDCT
\- one-dimensional discrete cosine transform (DCT) and inverse tranform 
of a signal vector
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccVectorDCT(const QccVector " input_signal ", QccVector " output_signal ", int " signal_length );
.br
.BI "int QccVectorInverseDCT(const QccVector " input_signal ", QccVector " output_signal ", int " signal_length );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B QccVectorDCT()
calculates the one-dimensional discrete cosine transform (DCT) of
.IR input_signal .
The result is returned in
.IR output_signal ,
which must be allocated prior to calling
.BR QccVectorDCT() .
Both 
.I input_signal
and
.I output_signal
have the same length,
.IR signal_length .
.LP
.B QccVectorInverseDCT()
calculates the inverse DCT of
.IR input_signal ,
returning its results in
.IR output_signal .
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Both
.B QccVectorDCT()
and
.B QccVectorInverseDCT()
return 0 on success, 1 on error.
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
These routines implement the type-II DCT; the implementation is slow,
and uses calls directly to
.BR cos (3).
Most applications should probably use
.BR QccFastDCTForwardTransform1D (3)
and
.BR QccFastDCTInverseTransform1D (3)
which are based on a faster FFT-based implementation, but
rely on the GNU Scientific Library (GSL) for the FFT.
.BR QccVectorDCT()
and
.BR QccVectorInverseDCT()
are provided for use when GSL is not available.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccFastDCTForwardTransform1D (3),
.BR QccFastDCTInverseTransform1D (3),
.BR QccVector (3),
.BR QccPack (3)

A. K. Jain,
.IR "Fundamentals of Digital Image Processing" .
Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1989.

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
