.TH BISKENCODE 1 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
biskencode, biskdecode \-
encode/decode an image using the BISK algorithm
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.B biskencode
.RB "[\|" \-w
.IR  wavelet "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-b
.IR  boundary "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-nl
.IR  levels "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-m
.IR  mask "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-rd
.IR  rd_file "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-vo "\|]"
.I rate
.I imgfile
.I bitstream
.LP
.B biskdecode
.RB "[\|" \-w
.IR  wavelet "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-b
.IR  boundary "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-m
.IR  mask "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-r
.IR  rate "\|]"
.I bitstream
.I imgfile
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-w " wavelet"
String. 
Name of the wavelet file
.RB ( FBK
or
.B LFT
format); default = "CohenDaubechiesFeauveau.9-7.lft"
.TP
.BI \-b " boundary"
String. Type of boundary extension; default = "symmetric".
.TP 
.BI \-nl " levels"
Integer. Number of levels of dyadic decomposition; default value is 5 levels.
.TP
.BI \-m " mask"
String. Name of file containing the transparency mask for
shape-adaptive coding. Default is to not use a mask.
.TP
.BI \-rd " rd_file"
String. Name of file to which to output the rate-distortion profile.
Default is to not output the rate-distortion profile.
.TP
.BI \-r " rate"
Float. Rate at which to stop decoding. Default is to decode until
end of input bitstream is reached.
.TP
.B \-vo
Print only the value of the rate to stdout (terse output);
default is verbose output.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B biskencode
codes an image,
.IR imgfile ,
using the BISK
algorithm by Fowler.
An embedded wavelet-based image coder based on the popular
bitplane-coding paradigm, BISK is designed specifically for the coding
of image objects with arbitrary shape. While other similar algorithms
(e.g., SPECK) employ quadtree-based set partitioning to code
significance-map information, BISK uses a simpler, and more
flexible, binary decomposition via
.IR k -d
trees. Additionally, aggressive
discarding of transparent regions is implemented by shrinking sets to
the bounding box of their constituent opaque coefficients before
further partitioning. See 
.BR QccWAVbiskEncode (3)
for more detail on the algorithm.
.LP
The transform is either the usual discrete
wavelet transform (DWT) or a shape-adaptive
DWT (SA-DWT); see
.BR imgdwt (1)
for complete details.
Option
.B \-w
specifies the wavelet, 
option
.B \-b
specifies the boundary extension, and option
The
.B \-m
option gives the image file to be used as a transparency mask
for the SA-DWT.
.I mask
must be a grayscale image
in which black in this image indicates transparency, white
indicates full opacity, and gray tones are degrees of
translucence
(see
.BR QccAlpha (3)).
If the
.B \-m
option is not given, the usual DWT is used.
.LP
The desired bitrate of the output
.I bitstream
is specified by
.IR rate ,
which is expressed in bits per pixel of the original image.
.B biskencode
normally prints to stdout a small amount of information
concerning this target bitrate and the actual bitrate achieved.
Usually these rates are identical, but may differ slightly.
If the 
.B \-vo
(value-only) option is given, all printed output is suppressed except for
the actual bitrate.
.LP
The
.B \-rd
option is used to provide the name of the file to which to output the
rate-distortion profile.
Briefly, the rate-distortion profile is a collection of numerous
points on the rate-distortion curve that is estimated during encoding
from distortion calculations in the wavelet-domain; see
.BR QccWAVbiskEncode (3)
for more details on the calculations involved.
If the
.B \-rd
option is not given, no rate-distortion profile is output.
.LP
.B biskdecode
performs the corresponding decoding using the BISK algorithm, decoding
the
.I bitstream
made by
.B biskencode
and producing
a reconstructed image,
.IR imgfile .
For sane results, 
.IR wavelet ,
and
.IR boundary
should be the same as they were for
.BR biskencode ,
and
.I mask
should be the same if an SA-DWT was used as the transform.
If a decoding rate is specified with the
.B \-r
option, then
.B biskdecode
stops decoding when
.I rate
bits per pixel from the input bitstream
have been decoded. Otherwise, decoding stops when the
end of the input bitstream is reached.
.LP
.BR biskencode
and
.BR biskdecode
call
.BR QccWAVbiskEncode (3)
and
.BR QccWAVbiskDecode (3),
respectively, to perform BISK encoding and decoding.
Refer to the man pages for these functions for more information
on the details of the QccPack implementation of the BISK algorithm.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccWAVbiskEncode (3),
.BR QccWAVbiskDecode (3),
.BR imgdwt (1),
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid (3),
.BR QccPackWAV (3),
.BR QccPackIMG (3),
.BR QccPack (3)

J. E. Fowler,
"Shape-Adaptive Coding Using Binary Set Splitting with
.IR k -d
Trees,"
submitted to the
.IR "2004 International Conference on Image Processing" ,
Singapore, December 2003.

W. A. Pearlman, A. Islam, N. Nagaraj, and A. Said,
"Efficient, Low-Complexity Image Coding With a Set-Partitioning Embedded
Block Coder,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology" ,
to appear, 2003.

J. L. Bentley, "Multidimensional Binary Search Trees Used for
Associative Searching,"
.IR "Communications of the ACM" ,
vol. 18, no. 9, pp. 509-517, September 1975.

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them and/or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
