.TH MASK_BAR 1 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
mask_bar \- boundary-to-area ratio (BAR) for a transparency mask
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mask_bar
.RB "[\|" \-vo "\|]"
.I mask
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-vo
Print only the value of the BAR to stdout (terse output);
default is verbose output.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B mask_bar
calls 
.BR QccWAVShapeAdaptiveMaskBAR (3)
to measure the "complexity" of the shape of a transparency mask with a
boundary-to-area ratio (BAR) defined as the total number of mask pixels
that lie on the boundary of the opaque object expressed as a
proportion of the total number of opaque pixels in the object.
.I mask
is the filename for the transparency mask.
.SH NOTES
The BAR metric was first proposed by Fowler (see below).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccWAVShapeAdaptiveMaskBAR (3),
.BR QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptiveDWT2D (3),
.BR QccWAVWaveletInverseShapeAdaptiveDWT2D (3),
.BR QccWAVWavelet (3),
.BR QccPackWAV (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.LP
J. E. Fowler,
"Shape-Adaptive Tarp Coding,"
submitted to the
.IR "2003 International Conference on Image Processing" ,
Barcelona, Spain, December 2002.
.LP
S. Li and W. Li, "Shape-Adaptive Discrete Wavelet Transforms for
Arbitrarily Shaped Visual Object Coding,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Coding" ,
vol. 10, pp. 725-743, August 2000.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them and/or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
