.TH SBPZERO 1 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
sbpzero \- zero subbands of subband pyramid
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sbpzero
.RB "[\|" \-z
.IR  subband "\|]"
.I subband\_pyramid1
.I subband\_pyramid2
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-z " subband"
Integer. Subband at which to start zeroing.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B sbpzero
reads the multi-level subband pyramid
.I subband\_pyramid1
.RB ( SBP
format with
.I L
>= 1 in the header).
Each subband starting with
.I subband
is zeroed and the resulting subband pyramid is written to
.IR subband\_pyramid2 .
.LP
.I subband
is an integer ranging from 0 (the baseband)
up to the maximum subband number of
.I L
* 3, which is the diagonal subband of the highest-resolution subband
of the pyramid.  The intermediate subbands are numbered in the order
horizontal, vertical, diagonal, so that subbands 1, 2, and 3, are the
horizontal, vertical, and diagonal subbands, respectively, of the
lowest-resolution level, 4, 5, 6 are the horizontal, vertical, and diagonal
subbands, respectively, of the next highest-resolution level, and so on.
If the 
.B \-z
option is not specified,
.I subband
defaults to 1; i.e., all highpass subbands are zeroed and only the
baseband is retained.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccPackWAVSubbandPyramid (3),
.BR QccPackWAV (3),
.BR QccPack (3)

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them and/or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
