.TH TCEENCODE3D_LOSSLESS 1 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
tceencode3d_lossless, tcedecode3d_lossless \-
encode/decode an image cube using the lossless 3D-TCE algorithm
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.B tceencode3d_lossless
.RB "[\|" \-w
.IR  wavelet "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-b
.IR  boundary "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-nl
.IR  num_levels "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-sl
.IR  spatial_num_levels "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-tl
.IR  temporal_num_levels "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-a
.IR  alpha "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-vo "\|]"
.I icbfile
.I bitstream
.LP
.B tcedecode3d_lossless
.RB "[\|" \-w
.IR  wavelet "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-b
.IR  boundary "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-r
.IR  rate "\|]"
.I bitstream
.I icbfile
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-w " wavelet"
String. 
Name of the wavelet file
.RB ( LFT
format); default = "CohenDaubechiesFeauveau.5-3.int.lft"
.TP
.BI \-b " boundary"
String. Type of boundary extension; default = "symmetric".
.TP 
.BI \-nl " num_levels"
Integer. Number of levels of dyadic decomposition; default value is 5 levels.
.TP 
.BI \-sl " spatial_num_levels"
Integer. Number of levels of spatial decomposition; no default value.
.TP 
.BI \-tl " temporal_num_levels"
Integer. Number of levels of temporal decomposition; no default value.
.TP
.BI \-a " alpha"
Float. Value of the learning-rate parameter alpha; default is 0.2.
.TP
.BI \-r " rate"
Float. Rate at which to stop decoding. Default is to decode until
end of input bitstream is reached.
.TP
.B \-vo
Print only the value of the rate to stdout (terse output);
default is verbose output.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B tceencode3d_lossless
codes an image cube,
.IR icbfile ,
using the lossless, or reversible, 3D-TCE algorithm.
The original TCE algorithm was developed for lossy coding of 2D images by
Tian and Hemami;
it was latter extended to 3D
and made lossless via the incorporation of reversible transforms
by Zhang
.IR "et al" .
See 
.BR QccWAVtce3DLosslessEncode (3)
for more detail.
.LP
The transform is the usual discrete wavelet transform (DWT),
with the
.B \-w
option specifying the wavelet, and the
.B \-b
option specifying the boundary extension.
.LP
The 3D-TCE algorithm performance is determined in part through
the parameter
.IR alpha ,
a value that gives the learning rate of the density-estimation
process implemented by the tarp filter used in one of
the coding passes of the TCE algorithm.
.LP
The
.BR \-nl ,
.BR \-sl ,
and
.BR \-tl
options determine whether a dyadic or wavelet-packet transform is used.
If
.B \-nl
is specified, a dyadic transform is used. In this case,
.IR num_levels
is the number of decompositions in all three directions.
If either
.B \-sl
or
.BR \-tl ,
or
both, is specified, a wavelet-packet transform is used.
In this case,
.I spatial_num_levels
and
.I temporal_num_levels
give the number of decompositions spatially and temporally, respectively,
of the packet transform. If only one of
.B \-sl
and
.B \-tl
is given, then the same number of decompositions
is used spatially and temporally.
In the case that none of
.BR \-nl ,
.BR \-sl ,
and
.BR \-tl 
is specified, then a dyadic decomposition with the default value of
.I num_levels
is used.
.LP
.B tceencode3d_lossless
normally prints to stdout a small amount of information
concerning the actual bitrate achieved.
If the 
.B \-vo
(value-only) option is given, all printed output is suppressed except for
the actual bitrate.
.LP
.B tcedecode3d_lossless
performs the corresponding decoding using the lossless 3D-TCE algorithm,
decoding the
.I bitstream
made by
.B tceencode3d_lossless
and producing
a reconstructed image cube,
.IR icbfile .
For sane results, 
.IR wavelet 
and
.IR boundary 
should be the same as they were for
.BR tceencode3d_lossless .
If a decoding rate is specified with the
.B \-r
option, then
.B tcedecode3d_lossless
stops decoding when
.I rate
bits per voxel from the input bitstream
have been decoded. Otherwise, decoding stops when the
end of the input bitstream is reached.
In this latter case, a lossless reconstruction of the original encoded
image will be produced. Otherwise, a lossy representation that differs
from the original image will result.
.LP
.BR tceencode3d_lossless
and
.BR tcedecode3d_lossless
call
.BR QccWAVtce3DLosslessEncode (3)
and
.BR QccWAVtce3DLosslessDecode (3),
respectively, to perform lossless 3D-TCE encoding and decoding.
Refer to the man pages for these functions for more information
on the details of the QccPack implementation of the lossless 3D-TCE algorithm.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccWAVtce3DLosslessEncode (3),
.BR QccWAVtce3DLosslessDecode (3),
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DInt (3),
.BR QccPackWAV (3),
.BR QccPackIMG (3),
.BR QccPack (3)

.LP
J. Zhang, J. E. Fowler, and G. Liu,
"Lossy-to-Lossless Compression of Hyperspectral Imagery Using
3D-TCE and an Integer KLT," 
.IR "IEEE Geoscience and Remote Sensing Letters" ,
vol. 5, pp. 814-818, October 2008.

C. Tian and S. S. Hemami, "An Embedded Image Coding System
Based on Tarp Filter with Classification," in
.IR "Proceedings of the International Conference on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing" ,
Montreal, Quebec, Canada, May 2004, vol. 3, pp. 49-52.

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them and/or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.


