.TH TCEENCODE 1 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
tceencode, tcedecode \-
encode/decode an image using the TCE algorithm
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.B tceencode
.RB "[\|" \-w
.IR  wavelet "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-b
.IR  boundary "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-nl
.IR  levels "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-ss
.IR  stepsize "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-r
.IR  rate "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-vo "\|]"
.I imgfile
.I bitstream
.LP
.B tcedecode
.RB "[\|" \-w
.IR  wavelet "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-b
.IR  boundary "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-r
.IR  rate "\|]"
.I bitstream
.I imgfile
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-w " wavelet"
String. 
Name of the wavelet file
.RB ( FBK
or
.B LFT
format); default = "CohenDaubechiesFeauveau.9-7.lft"
.TP
.BI \-b " boundary"
String. Type of boundary extension; default = "symmetric".
.TP 
.BI \-nl " levels"
Integer. Number of levels of dyadic decomposition; default value is 5 levels.
.TP
.BI \-ss " stepsize"
Float. The initial quantization stepsize;
if this option is specified, the coder will encode until all bitplanes
of the quantized coefficients are encoded.
.TP
.BI \-r " rate"
Float. The target encode/decode bit rate.
.TP
.B \-vo
Print only the value of the rate to stdout (terse output);
default is verbose output.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B tceencode
codes an image,
.IR imgfile ,
using the TCE algorithm by Tian and Hemami.
The TCE (tarp coding using classification to achieve embedding) algorithm
is based on the tarp algorithm (see 
.BR QccWAVTarpEncode (3)),
but is designed to provide better rate-distortion performance
when used in an embedded fashion; i.e., when decoding is performed
at a rate less than that at which the bitstream was produced.
See 
.BR QccWAVtceEncode (3)
for more detail on the TCE algorithm.
.LP
The transform is the usual discrete wavelet transform (DWT),
with the
.B \-w
option specifying the wavelet, and the
.B \-b
option specifying the boundary extension.
.LP
.B tceencode
supports two encoding modes.
Mode 1 consists of first applying a scalar quantizer to all
DWT coefficients and then encoding the coefficients,
bitplane by bitplane, until all bitplanes are encoded.
Mode 2 consists of direct bitplane encoding without any
scalar quantization of coefficients; in this mode, encoding
stops when the target bitrate is reached.
Mode 1 is selected by specifying a quantization
.I stepsize
with the
.B \-ss
option. Mode 2 is selected by specifying a target encoding
.I rate
with the 
.B \-r
option.
Note that one, and only one, of
.B \-ss
and
.B \-r
must be specified.
.LP
.B tceencode
prints to stdout a small amount of information concerning 
the target bitrate and the actual bitrate achieved, as well as some
run time information. Usually these rates are identical, but may
differ slightly. If the
.B \-vo
(value-only) option is given, all printed output is suppressed except for
the actual bitrate.
.LP
.B tcedecode
performs the corresponding decoding using the TCE algorithm,
decoding the
.I bitstream
made by
.B tceencode
and producing a reconstructed image,
.IR imgfile .
For sane results,
.I wavelet
and
.I boundary
should be the same as they were for
.BR tceencode . 
The
.B \-r
option for
.B tcedecode
specifies the
.I rate
at which to stop decoding, which may be any rate less than that at which
.I bitstream
was originally produced.
.LP
.B tceencode
and
.B tcedecode
call
.BR QccWAVtceEncode (3)
and
.BR QccWAVtceDecode (3),
respectively, to perform TCE encoding and decoding.
Refer to the man pages for these functions for more information
on the details of the QccPack implementation of the TCE algorithm. 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccWAVtceEncode (3),
.BR QccWAVtceDecode (3),
.BR QccWAVTarpEncode (3),
.BR QccWAVTarpDecode (3),
.BR imgdwt (1),
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid (3),
.BR QccPackWAV (3),
.BR QccPackIMG (3),
.BR QccPack (3)

.LP
C. Tian and S. S. Hemami, "An Embedded Image Coding System
Based on Tarp Filter with Classification," in
.IR "Proceedings of the International Conference on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing" ,
Montreal, Quebec, Canada, May 2004, vol. 3, pp. 49-52.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Chao Tian, Cornell University

Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them and/or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
