.TH DATTOICP 1 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
dattoicp \- converts dataset to image component
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dattoicp
.RB "[\|" \-tw
.IR  tilewidth "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-th
.IR tileheight "\|]"
.I imagewidth
.I imageheight
.I datfile
.I icpfile
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-tw " tilewidth"
Integer. Horizontal width of rectangular tiles
.TP
.BI \-th " tileheight"
Integer. Vertical height of rectangular tiles
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B dattoicp
converts dataset
.IR datfile ,
in DAT format,
to a ICP-format image component,
.IR icpfile .
Each one-dimensional vector in
.I datfile
is assembled into a two-dimensional tile
and then placed in
.IR icpfile .
The tiles are read sequentially from
.I datfile
and placed into
.I icpfile
in raster-scan order.
The options
.B \-tw 
and 
.B \-th 
are used to specify that
rectangular tiles of dimension 
.I tilewidth 
x 
.I tileheight 
are written to
.I icpfile 
from vectors of the same size from 
.IR datfile .
In the absence of 
.B \-tw 
and 
.BR \-th , 
square tiles of 
.RI sqrt( v ") x sqrt(" v )
are written to icpfile, where 
.I v 
is the vector dimension
of the vectors in
.I datfile 
.RI ( v " must be a perfect square)."
Note: both
.B \-tw
and 
.B \-th
must be specified for rectangular tiles, and, if specified,
.IR tilewidth " * " tileheight
must be equal to
.IR v .
.LP
.I imagewidth
and
.I imageheight
give the size of the image component
.I icpfile
and must be specified.
If
.I imagewidth
or
.I imageheight
are not multiples of the requested tile size,
additional rows and/or columns are appended to the bottom
and/or right of the image as necessary to meet the
requested size.
These rows and/or columns are duplicates of the last full row or
column available in the image component.
.LP
.BR dattoicp
calls
.BR QccIMGDatasetToImageComponent (3) .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR icptodat (1),
.BR QccIMGDatasetToImageComponent (3) ,
.BR QccPackIMG (3),
.BR QccPack (3)

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them and/or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
