.TH ICBTOSEQ 1 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
icbtoseq \- converts image cube to image sequence
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B icbtoseq
.RB "[\|" \-sf
.IR  startframe "\|]"
.I icbfile
.I seqfile
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-sf
Start frame for image sequence.
Default is 0.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B icbtoseq
converts an image cube,
.IR icbfile ,
in ICB format,
to an image sequence,
.IR seqfile .
All frames of
.IR seqfile
are output as grayscale, PGM-format files.
.LP
The option
.B \-sf
specifies the starting frame number for
.IR seqfile ,
defaulting to 0.
.LP
.BR icbtoseq
calls
.BR QccIMGImageCubeToImageSequence (3).
.LP
Note: converting from ICB format to PGM format implies converting
floating-point values to integer-valued pixels.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR seqtoicb (1),
.BR QccIMGImageSequenceToImageCube (3),
.BR QccIMGImageSequence (3),
.BR QccIMGImageCube (3),
.BR QccPackIMG (3),
.BR QccPack (3)

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them and/or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
