.TH ICPTOIMG 1 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
icptoimg \- converts image component to image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B icptoimg
.RB "[\|" \-n "\|]"
.I icpfiles...
.I imgfile
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-n 
Normalize output image
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B icptoimg
converts image components
.IR icpfiles ,
in ICP format,
to an image,
.IR imgfile .
.LP
.BR icptoimg
determines the type of the output image by calling
.BR QccIMGImageDetermineType (3).
If the output image is determined to be grayscale, then exactly one
.I icpfile
is expected to be specified to
.BR icptoimg .
Otherwise, if the output image is determined to be a color image, then
exactly three
.I icpfiles
are expected to be specified to
.BR icptoimg ,
and the three
.I icpfiles
give the Y, U, and V image components in that order.
.LP
If option
.B \-n
is given,
.BR QccIMGImageComponentNormalize (3)
is called on each component of the output image, which results
in the expansion or contraction of the dynamic range of pixel
values to the 0-255 range.
.LP
Note: converting from ICP format to PGM or PPM format implies converting
floating-point values to integer-valued pixels.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR imgtoicp (1),
.BR QccIMGImageComponentNormalize (3),
.BR QccPackIMG (3),
.BR QccPack (3)

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them and/or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
