.TH IMGDPCMENCODE 1 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
imgdpcmencode,
imgdpcmdecode
\- encode and decode an image using DPCM
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B imgdpcmencode
.RB "[\|" \-p
.IR predictor "\|]"
.I imgfile
.I quantizers...
.I channels...
.br
.sp
.B imgdpcmdecode
.RB "[\|" \-p
.IR predictor "\|]"
.I imagewidth
.I imageheight
.I quantizers...
.I channels...
.I imgfile
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-p " predictor"
Predictor code to be used for DPCM. The default code is 2.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B imgdpcmencode
encodes an image using two-dimensional DPCM.
DPCM encoding is accomplished by calling
.BR QccIMGImageDPCMEncode (3) ;
essentially, DPCM is
applied to each image component (Y, U, V) separately.
A separate
.IR channel
file (CHN format) is output for each component.
.LP
.B imgdpcmdecode
performs decoding of 
.I channels
produced by
.BR imgdpcmencode (1),
outputting the reconstructed image to
.IR imgfile .
.B imgdpcmdecode
can produce grayscale (PGM) or color (PPM) images.
In the case of color images,
DPCM decoding is applied to each image component (Y, U, V) separately.
.LP
For color images,
.B imgdpcmencode
and
.B imgdpcmdecode
expect to be given three scalar
.IR  quantizers ,
one for each of the Y, U, and V components, respectively,
of the image.
Additionally, channel indices are written to or
read from three separate channel files
.RI ( channels ).
For grayscale images, only one
.I quantizer
and one
.I channel
need be specified.
.LP
The 
.B \-p 
option specifies the 
.I predictor
code to be used.
See
.BR QccIMGImageDPCMEncode (3)
for valid values.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccIMGImageDPCMEncode (3) ,
.BR QccIMGImageDPCMDecode (3) ,
.BR QccIMGImage (3),
.BR QccPackIMG (3),
.BR QccPack (3)

A. K. Jain,
.IR "Fundamentals of Digital Image Processing" .
Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1989, pp. 483-498.

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them and/or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
