.TH SEQDIST 1 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
seqdist \- calculate the distortion between two image sequences
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B seqdist
.RB "[\|" \-vo "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-sf
.IR  startframe "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-ef
.IR  endframe "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-mse "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-snr "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-psnr "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-mae "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-w "\|]"
.I seqfile1
.I seqfile2
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-vo
Output only the value of the distortion (terse output).
.TP
.B \-sf
Start frame for subsequence over which to calculate distortion.
Default is first available frame.
.TP
.B \-ef
End frame for subsequence over which to calculate distortion.
Default is last available frame.
.TP
.B \-mse
Express the distortion in terms of MSE.
.TP
.B \-snr
Express the distortion in terms of SNR.
.TP
.B \-psnr
Express the distortion in terms of PSNR.
.TP
.B \-mae
Express the distortion in terms of MAE.
.TP
.B \-w
Output the distortion over all frames of the sequence only.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B seqdist
prints
the mean square error (MSE), signal-to-noise ratio (SNR),
peak signal-to-noise ratio (PSNR), or
maximum absolute error (MAE)
between image sequences
.I seqfile1
and
.I seqfile2
to stdout.
.LP
The options
.BR \-mse ,
.BR \-snr ,
.BR \-psnr ,
and
.BR \-mae 
indicate in which form the distortion should be expressed.
If none of these
options are specified, 
.B seqdist
prints the distortion in all forms.
.LP
If the option
.B \-vo
is specified,
then 
.B seqdist
prints a terse output, consisting of only the value of the distortion,
to stdout.  One of the options
.BR \-mse ,
.BR \-snr ,
.BR \-psnr ,
or
.BR \-mae
must be specified in this case.
.LP
The options
.B \-sf
and
.B \-ef
specify the starting and ending frame numbers, respectively, 
over which to calculate the distortion. If either of these
is not specified,
.BR seqdist
determines the first and/or last frame automatically from the files that
exist via
.BR QccIMGImageSequenceFindFrameNums (3).
.LP
If the 
.B \-w
option is not given, 
the distortion over each individual frame is printed.  Additionally,
in the case of verbose output 
.RB ( \-vo
not given), the distortion over the entire sequence (or relevant
subsequence, in the case that
.B \-sf
or
.B \-ef
are specified) is output.
If
.B \-w
is given, only this latter distortion is output.
.LP
If the image files are color,
the distortion calculations are performed separately for the Y, U, and V 
components of the image.  The distortions for each image component are
output in order.
.LP
For the calculation of SNR and PSNR,
.B seqfile1
is considered the original signal; 
.B seqdist
thus finds the variance of
.B seqfile1
for use in the SNR calculation.
For the calculation of PSNR,
.B seqdist
assumes that the peak-to-peak range of
.B seqfile1
is 255 levels.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR imgdist (1),
.BR QccIMGImageComponentMSE (3),
.BR QccIMGImageComponentMAE (3),
.BR QccIMGImageSequence (3),
.BR QccPackIMG (3),
.BR QccPack (3)

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them and/or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
