.TH SEQTOYUV 1 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
seqtoyuv \- converts image sequence to YUV file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B seqtoyuv
.RB "[\|" \-sf
.IR  startframe "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-ef
.IR  endframe "\|]"
.I seqfile
.I yuvfile
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-sf
Start frame for image sequence.
Default is first available frame.
.TP
.B \-ef
End frame for sequence.
Default is last available frame.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B seqtoyuv
converts an image sequence,
.IR seqfile ,
to an image sequence stored in a headerless YUV-format file,
.IR yuvfile .
All frames of
.IR seqfile
must be grayscale files, and
the chrominance information in
.IR yuvfile
is set to 0.
.LP
The options
.B \-sf
and
.B \-ef
specify the starting and ending frame numbers, respectively, 
over which to calculate the distortion. If either of these
is not specified,
.BR seqdist
determines the first and/or last frame automatically from the files that
exist via
.BR QccIMGImageSequenceFindFrameNums (3).
.LP
.IR yuvfile
is a simple headerless, raw, planar 4:2:0 YUV file which consists
of a sequence of raw luminance/chrominance images
stored one after another in a single file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR yuvtoseq (1),
.BR QccIMGImageSequence (3),
.BR QccPackIMG (3),
.BR QccPack (3)

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them and/or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
