.TH SEQTOICB 1 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
seqtoicb \- converts image sequence to image cube
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B seqtoicb
.RB "[\|" \-sf
.IR  startframe "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-ef
.IR  endframe "\|]"
.I seqfile
.I icbfile
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-sf
Start frame for image sequence.
Default is first available frame.
.TP
.B \-ef
End frame for sequence.
Default is last available frame.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B seqtoicb
converts an image sequence
.IR seqfile ,
to an image cube,
.IR icbfile ,
in ICB format. All frames of
.IR seqfile
must be grayscale.
.LP
The options
.B \-sf
and
.B \-ef
specify the starting and ending frame numbers, respectively, 
over which to convert frames to the image cube. If either of these
is not specified,
.BR seqdist
determines the first and/or last frame automatically from the files that
exist via
.BR QccIMGImageSequenceFindFrameNums (3).
.LP
.BR seqtoicb
calls
.BR QccIMGImageSequenceToImageCube (3).
.LP
Note: converting from PGM format files to ICB format implies simply converting
integer pixels to floating-point values.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR icbtoseq (1),
.BR QccIMGImageSequenceToImageCube (3),
.BR QccIMGImageSequence (3),
.BR QccIMGImageCube (3),
.BR QccPackIMG (3),
.BR QccPack (3)

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them and/or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
