.TH QCCIMGIMAGERGBTOYUV 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccIMGImageRGBtoYUV,
QccIMGImageYUVtoRGB,
QccIMGImageRGBtoYCbCr,
QccIMGImageYCbCrtoRGB,
QccIMGImageRGBtoXYZ,
QccIMGImageXYZtoRGB,
QccIMGImageRGBtoUCS,
QccIMGImageUCStoRGB,
QccIMGImageRGBtoModifiedUCS,
QccIMGImageModifiedUCStoRGB,
QccIMGImageModifiedUCSColorMetric,
QccIMGImageRGBtoHSV,
QccIMGImageHSVtoRGB
\- 
image color-space conversions 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "void QccIMGImageRGBtoYUV(double *" Y ", double *" U ", double *" V ", int " R ", int " G ", int " B );
.br
.BI "void QccIMGImageYUVtoRGB(int *" R ", int *" G ", int *" B ", double " Y ", double " U ", double " V );
.br
.sp
.BI "void QccIMGImageRGBtoYCbCr(int *" Y ", int *" Cb ", int *" Cr ", int " R ", int " G ", int " B );
.br
.BI "void QccIMGImageYCbCrtoRGB(int *" R ", int *" G ", int *" B ", int " Y ", int " Cb ", int " Cr );
.br
.sp
.BI "void QccIMGImageRGBtoXYZ(double *" X ", double *" Y ", double *" Z ", int " R ", int " G ", int " B );
.br
.BI "void QccIMGImageXYZtoRGB(int *" R ", int *" G ", int *" B ", double " X ", " double " Y ", double " Z );
.br
.sp
.BI "void QccIMGImageRGBtoUCS(double *" U ", double *" V ", double *" W ", int " R ", int " G ", int " B );
.br
.BI "void QccIMGImageUCStoRGB(int *" R ", int *" G ", int *" B ", double " U ", double " V ", double " W );
.br
.sp
.BI "void QccIMGImageRGBtoModifiedUCS(double *" U ", double *" V ", double *" W ", int " R ", int " G ", int " B );
.br
.BI "void QccIMGImageModifiedUCStoRGB(int *" R ", int *" G ", int *" B ", double " U ", double " V ", double " W );
.br
.BI "double QccIMGImageModifiedUCSColorMetric(int " R1 ", int " G1 ", int " B1 ", int " R2 ", int " G2 ", int " B2 );
.br
.sp
.BI "void QccIMGImageRGBtoHSV(double *" H ", double *" S ", double *" V ", int " R ", int " G ", int " B );
.br
.BI "void QccIMGImageHSVtoRGB(int *" R ", int *" G ", int *" B ", double " H ", double " S ", double " V );
.SH DESCRIPTION
The following routines perform conversions to and from various
color spaces.
All of the following conversions are for tristimulus values
(not chromaticities). Also, RGB values are assumed to be integers
in the range 0 to 255.
.LP
.BR QccIMGImageRGBtoYUV()
and
.BR QccIMGImageYUVtoRGB()
convert to and from the PAL YUV color space.
.IR R ,
.IR G ,
and
.IR B
are assumed to be integer values in the range 0 to 255.
.IR Y ,
.IR U ,
and
.IR V ,
are floating point with
.IR Y
in the range 0 to 255,
.IR  U
in the range approximately -111 to 111,
and
.IR V
in the range approximately -157 to 157.
.LP
.BR QccIMGImageRGBtoYCbCr()
and
.BR QccIMGImageYCbCrtoRGB()
convert to and from the
CCIR-601 YCbCr color space.
.IR R ,
.IR G ,
and
.IR B
are assumed to be integer values in the range 0 to 255.
.IR Y ,
.IR Cb ,
and
.IR Cr
are also integer-valued;
.IR Y
lies in the range 16 to 235,
while
.IR Cb
and
.IR Cr
are both in the range
16 to 240.
The CCIR-601 YCbCr color space is very close to the PAL YUV color space;
the main difference is that the YCbCr values are designed to be
represented by positive, 8-bit integers with a margin for "overshoot"
and "undershoot".
.LP
.BR QccIMGImageRGBtoXYZ()
and
.BR QccIMGImageXYZtoRGB()
convert to and from the CIE X, Y, Z color space.
.IR R ,
.IR G ,
and
.IR B
are assumed to be integer values in the range 0 to 255.
.IR X ,
.IR Y ,
and
.IR Z
are floating point in the range 0.0 to 1.0.
.IR Y
in this color system is luminance.
.LP
.BR QccIMGImageRGBtoUCS()
and
.BR QccIMGImageUCStoRGB()
convert to and from the
CIE Uniform Chromaticity Scale (UCS) color space.
In this color system,
.IR V
is luminance.
.LP
.BR QccIMGImageRGBtoModifiedUCS()
and
.BR QccIMGImageModifiedUCStoRGB()
convert to and from the
CIE Modified UCS System.
In this system,
.IR W
is contrast or brightness.
.BR QccIMGImageModifiedUCSColorMetric()
returns the squared distance between two RGB colors as calculated in the
CIE Modified UCS space. The two RGB colors are converted into the
CIE Modified UCS space, and the square of the Euclidean distance between
the converted colors is calculated.
.LP
.BR QccIMGImageRGBtoHSV()
and
.BR QccIMGImageHSVtoRGB()
convert to and from 
Hue, Saturation, Value (HSV) space.
This space is merely the polar form of Modified UCS;
.IR V
is value,
or more accurately, brightness.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccIMGImageColorSNR (3),
.BR QccIMGImage (3),
.BR QccPackIMG (3),
.BR QccPack (3)

A. K. Jain,
.IR "Fundamentals of Digital Image Processing" .
Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1989.

M. Ghanbari,
.IR "Standard Codecs: Image Compression to Advanced Video Coding" .
London: IEE, 2003.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.



