.TH QCCIMGIMAGESEQUENCETOIMAGECUBE 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccIMGImageSequenceToImageCube,
QccIMGImageCubeToImageSequence
\- 
convert image sequence to/from image cube
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccIMGImageSequenceToImageCube(QccIMGImageSequence *" image_sequence ", QccIMGImageCube *" image_cube );
.br
.BI "int QccIMGImageCubeToImageSequence(const QccIMGImageCube *" image_cube ", QccIMGImageSequence *" image_sequence );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR QccIMGImageSequenceToImageCube()
converts
.IR image_sequence ,
a
.BR QccIMGImageSequence
structure, to
.IR image_cube ,
a
.BR QccImageCube
structure.
.BR QccIMGImageSequenceStartRead (3)
should be called on
.IR image_sequence ,
and
.IR image_cube
should be allocated via a call to
.BR QccIMGImageCubeAlloc (3)
prior to calling
.BR QccIMGImageSequenceToImageCube() .
The frames of
.IR image_sequence
are placed as the 2D "frames" in
.IR image_cube .
Consequently, all frames of the image sequence must be grayscale.
.LP
.BR QccIMGImageCubeToImageSequence()
converts
.IR image_cube ,
a
.BR QccIMGImageCube
structure, to
.IR image_sequence ,
a
.BR QccIMGImageSequence
structure.
.IR image_sequence
must be allocated via a call to
.BR QccIMGImageSequenceAlloc (3)
prior to calling
.BR QccIMGImageCubeToImageSequence() .
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
These routines return 0 on success, 1 on failure.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccIMGImageSequence (3),
.BR QccImageCube (3),
.BR QccPackIMG (3),
.BR QccPack (3)

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
