.TH QCCHYPRAWDIST2D 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccHYPRawDist2D,
QccHYPRawDist3D
\- distortion between two raw-format files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccHYPRawDist2D(QccString " filename1 ", QccString " filename2 ", double *" mse ", double *" mae ", double *" snr ", int " num_rows ", int " num_cols ", int " bpp ", int " signed_data ", int " endian );
.br
.BI "int QccHYPRawDist3D(QccString " filename1 ", QccString " filename2 ", double *" mse ", double *" mae ", double *" snr ", int " num_frames ", int " num_rows ", int " num_cols ", int " bpv ", int " signed_data ", int " format ", int " endian );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR QccHYPRawDist2D()
and
.BR QccHYPRawDist3D()
calculate the distortion between two raw binary files;
.BR QccHYPRawDist2D()
is for 2D files while
.BR QccHYPRawDist3D()
is for 3D files.
The mean squared error (MSE), the maximum absolute error (MAE), and
the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) are calculated and returned in
.IR mse ,
.IR mae ,
and
.IR snr ,
respectively. SNR is calculated with respect to the variance of
.IR filename1 .
If any of
.IR mse ,
.IR mae ,
and
.IR snr 
are
.BR NULL ,
the respective value is calculated but not returned.
.LP
In all of these routines,
the parameters
.IR bpp
(2D files) or
.IR bpv
(3D files)
specify the number of bits that each pixel or voxel value contains,
respectively; these values 
must be between 1 and 32. If
.IR bpp " or " bpv
is <= 8, then each sample is stored 
as the least significant
bits in a single byte; otherwise, if
.IR bpp " or " bpv
is <= 16, then each sample is stored
as the least significant bits of two consecutive bytes;
otherwise, if
.IR bpp " or " bpv
is <= 32, then each sample is stored
as the least significant bits of four consecutive bytes.
.IR signed_data
indicates whether the sample values are signed or not;
likewise,
.IR endian ,
which is one of
.BR QCCHYP_RAWENDIAN_BIG
or
.BR QCCHYP_RAWENDIAN_LITTLE ,
indicates the endianness of the values.
For 3D reading and writing,
.IR format
must be one of
.BR QCCHYP_RAWFORMAT_BSQ ,
.BR QCCHYP_RAWFORMAT_BIL ,
or
.BR QCCHYP_RAWFORMAT_BIP
to indicate the scan order of the 3D file.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Both routines
return 0 on success, 1 on error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccHYPRaw (3),
.BR QccPackHYP (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
