.TH QCCHYPIMAGECUBEMEANSAM 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccHYPImageCubeMeanSAM
\- calculate the mean SAM between two image cubes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "double QccHYPImageCubeMeanSAM(const QccIMGImageCube *" image_cube1 ", const QccIMGImageCube *" image_cube2 );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR QccHYPImageCubeMeanSAM()
calculates the mean spectral angle mapper (SAM) between 
.IR image_cube1
and
.IR image_cube2 .
Both
.IR image_cube1
and
.IR image_cube2
must have the same size.
.LP
In hyperspectral terminology, the SAM is simply the angle between two pixel
vectors.
.IR image_cube1
and
.IR image_cube2 
are considered to be 2D arrays of spectral pixel vectors, where the
vectors have dimension
.IR image_cube1->num_frames .
.BR QccVectorAngle (3)
is used to calculate the angle, in degrees, between a pixel vector from
.IR image_cube1
and the corresponding pixel vector in 
.IR image_cube2 .
These angles are averaged over the entire dataset
and the value of the mean angle returned.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
This routine returns the mean SAM in degrees.
If the image cubes do not have the same size, 0.0 is returned.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccPackHYP (3),
.BR QccVectorAngle (3),
.BR QccIMGImageCube (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
