.TH QCCHYPIMAGECUBETOCOLOR 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccHYPImageCubeToColor
\- make a color-image representation of image cube
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccHYPImageCubeToColor(const QccIMGImageCube *" image_cube ", QccIMGImage *" image ", int " red_band ", int " green_band ", int " blue_band );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR QccHYPImageCubeToColor()
creates a color-image representation of
.I image_cube
by extracting three bands as the red, green, and blue components
of the color image.
The values of
.IR red_band ,
.IR green_band ,
and
.IR blue_band
indicate which bands from
.IR image_cube
to extract.
The image is output to
.IR image
which must be allocated prior to calling
.BR QccHYPImageCubeToColor()
to the same number of rows and columns as
.IR image_cube ;
.IR image
must be a color image (i.e., have three components).
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
This routine
returns 0 on success, 1 on error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccIMGImageComponent (3),
.BR QccIMGImage (3),
.BR QccPackHYP (3),
.BR QccPackIMG (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
