.TH ECVQENCODE 1 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
ecvqencode \- encoding using entropy-constrained vector quantization (ECVQ)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ecvqencode
.I lambda
.I datafile
.I codebookfile
.I channelfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B ecvqencode
encodes
.I trainingfile
(DAT format) using entropy-constrained vector quantization (ECVQ).
.B ecvqencode
uses input
.I codebookfile
(CBK format)
as the ECVQ codebook and
outputs a channel of indices to
.I channelfile 
(CHN format).
.B ecvqencode
implements full-search VQ
with a rate-distortion-based cost measure in the form
.I "J = D + lambda * R"
where 
.I D
is the squared-error distortion,
.I R
is a rate estimate (based on codeword probabilities), and
.I lambda
is a "rate-distortion" parameter that controls the trade-off between
rate and distortion in the cost function.
For more details on ECVQ, refer to the paper by Chou, Lookabaugh, and Gray
cited below.
.LP
The ECVQ codebook,
.IR codebookfile ,
can be trained using
.BR ecvqtrain (1).
The channel symbols range from 0 to N-1, where N is the
number of codewords in 
.IR codebookfile .
The output channel,
.IR channelfile ,
can be decoded (to produce a quantized datafile) using
.BR vqdecode (1).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ecvqtrain (1),
.BR vqdecode (1),
.BR QccPackVQ (3),
.BR QccPack (3)

P. A. Chou, T. Lookabaugh, and R. M. Gray, "Entropy-constrained Vector
Quantization," IEEE Transactions on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal
Processing, vol. 37, pp. 31-42, January 1989.

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them and/or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
