.TH GLA 1 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
gla \- train codebooks for vector quantization using the generalized Lloyd
algorithm
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gla
.RB "[\|" \-i
.IR  initialcodebookfile "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-s
.IR codebooksize "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-I 
.IR iterations "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-t
.IR threshold "\|]"
.I trainingfile
.I codebookfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B gla
implements the generalized Lloyd algorithm
for training   
codebooks to be used in vector quantization (see
.BR vqencode (1)
and
.BR vqdecode (1)).
.I trainingfile
is an input data file in DAT
format which contains training vectors.  
.I codebookfile
is the output file in CBK
format which contains the codewords which form the    
codebook.  Initial codewords are chosen at       
random, unless 
.I initialcodebookfile
is specified.  
The distortion measure which
.B gla
attempts to minimize is the squared error.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-i " initialcodebookfile"
String. Initial codebook.
Note: one (and only one) of 
.B \-i 
and 
.B \-s
must be given.  
.TP
.BI \-s " codebooksize"
Integer. Number of codewords to create for random initial codebook.
Note: one (and only one) of 
.B \-i 
and 
.B \-s
must be given.  
.TP
.BI \-I " iterations"
Integer. Traininging stops after
.I iterations 
iterations
of the generalized Lloyd algorithm through the training data.
Note: one (and only one) of 
.B \-t
and 
.B \-I
must be given.  
.TP 
.BI \-t " threshold"
Float. Stop the training process when the average distortion changes by less
than 
.I threshold
from one iteration to the next; that is, stop if
(D(i-1) - D(i))/D(i) <
.IR threshold ,
where D(i) is the average distortion for the ith iteration and is
averaged over the entire training set.  
Note: one (and only one) of 
.B \-t
and 
.B \-I
must be given.  
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR vqencode (1),
.BR vqdecode (1),
.BR QccPackVQ (3),
.BR QccPack (3)

A. Gersho and R. Gray, 
.IR "Vector Quantization and Signal Compression" .
Norwell, MA: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1992.

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them and/or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
