.TH VQENCODE 1 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
vqencode \- encoding using vector quantization
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vqencode
.I datfile
.I codebookfile
.I channelfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B vqencode
encodes
.I datfile
(DAT format) using vector quantization (VQ).
.B vqencode
uses input
.I codebookfile
(CBK format)
as the VQ codebook and
outputs a channel of VQ indices to
.I channelfile 
(CHN format).
.B vqencode
implements full-search VQ
with a squared-error distortion measure.
The channel symbols range from 0 to N-1, where N is the
number of codewords in 
.IR codebookfile .
The VQ codebook,
.IR codebookfile ,
can be trained using
.BR gla (1).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR vqdecode (1),
.BR gla (1),
.BR QccPackVQ (3),
.BR QccPack (3)

A. Gersho and R. Gray, 
.IR "Vector Quantization and Signal Compression" .
Norwell, MA: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1992.

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them and/or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
