.TH QCCPACKSPECK 3 "QCCPACKSPECK" ""
.SH NAME
QccPackSPECK \- QccPack module for SPECK encoding and decoding
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B QccPackSPECK
is an optional module for the QccPack library that provides
encoding and decoding of images
using the Set-Partitioning Embedded Block (SPECK) algorithm.
.SS "LIBRARY ROUTINES"
.TP
.BR QccSPECKEncode (3)
image encoding using the SPECK algorithm
.TP
.BR QccSPECKDecodeHeader (3)
decode header for SPECK image decoding
.TP
.BR QccSPECKDecode (3)
image decoding using SPECK algorithm
.SS "UTILITY PROGRAMS"
.TP
.BR speckencode (1)
code an image using the SPECK algorithm
.TP
.BR speckdecode (1)
decode and image using the SPECK algorithm
.TP
.BR speckencode3d (1)
code an image using the 3D-SPECK algorithm
.TP
.BR speckdecode3d (1)
decode and image using the 3D-SPECK algorithm
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccPackWAV (3),
.BR QccPack (3)

W. A. Pearlman, A. Islam, N. Nagaraj, and A. Said,
"Efficient, Low-Complexity Image Coding with a Set-Partitioning
Embedded Block Coder,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology" ,
to appear, 2003.

A. Islam and W. A. Pearlman,
"An Embedded and Efficient Low-Complexity Hierarchical Image Coder,"
in
.IR "Visual Communications and Image Processing" ,
K. Aizawa, R. L. Stevenson, and Y.-Q. Zhang, Eds., San Jose, CA,
January 1999, Proc. SPIE 3653, pp. 294-305.

Z. Lu and W. A. Pearlman,
"Wavelet Video Coding of Video Object by Object-Based SPECK Algorithm,"
in
.IR "Proceedings of the Picture Coding Symposium" ,
Seoul, Korea, April 2001, pp. 413-416.

X. Tang, W. A. Pearlman, and J. W. Modestino,
"Hyperspectral Image Compression Using Three-Dimensional
Wavelet Coding,"
in
.IR "Image and Video Communications and Processing" ,
Santa Clara, CA, January 2003, Proc. SPIE 5022, pp. 1037-1047.

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler

.SH LICENSE
The Set-Partitioning Embedded Block (SPECK) algorithm is protected by US
Patent #6,671,413 (issued December 30, 2003) and by patents pending.
An implementation of the SPECK algorithm is included herein (utility
programs speckencode and speckdecode, and speck.c in the QccPack library)
with the permission of Dr. William A. Pearlman, exclusive holder of patent
rights. Dr. Pearlman has graciously granted a license with certain
restrictions governing the terms and conditions for use, copying,
distribution, and modification of the SPECK algorithm implementation
contained herein. Specifically, only use in academic and non-commercial
research is permitted, while all commercial use is prohibited. Refer to
the file LICENSE-SPECK for more details.

