.TH ICBKLT 1 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
icbklt \- transform image cube with KLT
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B icbklt
.RB "[\|" \-p
.IR num_pcs "\|]"
.I kltfile
.I icbfile1
.I icbfile2
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-p
Gives the number of PCs to retain after the transform is applied.
Default is to retain all PCs.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B icbklt
performs the forward KLT transform
.IR klt
on the hyperspectral image in
.IR icbfile1 ,
spectrally decorrelating all the pixel vectors.
The resulting transformed image cube is written to
.IR icbfile2 .
.LP
If the
.BR \-p
option is not specified, all PCs produced by the transform
are retained and written to
.IR icbfile2 ;
that is,
.IR icbfile2
has the same size as
.IR icbfile1 .
On the other hand, specifying
.BR \-p
results in the retaining of only
.IR num_pcs
spectral principal components (PCs). In this case,
.IR num_pcs
must be less than or equal to the number of spectral bands of
.IR icbfile1 ,
and
.IR icbfile2
will be the same size spatially as
.IR icbfile1
but will have only
.IR num_pcs
PCS.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR icbiklt (1),
.BR QccHYPkltTransform (3),
.BR QccHYPkltInverseTransform (3),
.BR QccHYPklt (3),
.BR QccPackHYP (3),
.BR QccPack (3)

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them and/or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
