.TH ICBSAM 1 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
icbsam \- calculate the mean SAM between two image cubes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B icbsam
.RB "[\|" \-vo "\|]"
.I icbfile1
.I icbfile2
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-vo
Output only the value of the mean SAM.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B icbdist
prints
the mean spectral angle mapper (SAM)
between two image-cube files,
.I icbfile1
and
.IR icbfile2 ,
to stdout.
.IR icbfile1
and
.IR icbfile2
are both ICB-format files.
.LP
If the option
.B \-vo
is specified,
then 
.B icbdist
prints a terse output, consisting of only the value of the mean SAM,
to stdout.
.LP
The mean SAM is calculated, in degrees, via a call to
.BR QccHYPImageCubeMeanSAM (3).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccHYPImageCubeMeanSAM (3),
.BR QccIMGImageCube (3),
.BR QccPackHYP (3),
.BR QccPack (3)

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them and/or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
