.TH ICBTOCOLOR 1 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
icbtocolor \- converts image cube to color-image representation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B icbtocolor
.RB "[\|" \-r
.IR red "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-g
.IR green "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-b
.IR blue "\|]"
.I icbfile
.I imgfile
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-r
The band to use for the red component. Default = 52.
.TP
.BI \-g
The band to use for the green component. Default = 30.
.TP
.BI \-b
The band to use for the green component. Default = 4.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B icbtocolor
creates a color-image representation of the hyperspectral
image given by
.IR icbfile
.RB ( ICB -format).
This is accomplished via a call to
.BR QccHYPImageCubeToColor (3).
.LP
The
.BR \-r ,
.BR \-g ,
and
.BR \-b 
options specify which bands to grab for the red, green, and
blue components, respectively, of the color image.
The default values produce a reasonable representation for
AVIRIS images.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccHYPImageCubeToColor (3),
.BR QccPackHYP (3),
.BR QccPack (3)

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them and/or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
