.TH ASCIITODAT 1 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
asciitodat \- convert file from ASCII to DAT format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B asciitodat
.RB "[\|" \-d
.IR vector_dimension "\|]"
.I asciifile
.I datfile
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-d " vector_dimension
Integer.  Vector dimension of output DAT file. Default = 1.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B asciitodat
reads floating-point numbers in ASCII from
.IR asciifile ,
converts them to binary form,
and then writes them to
.IR datfile .
The binary numbers in 
.I datfile
are stored as 4 bytes with the most-significant byte
stored first.
A header is added to
.I datfile
so that
.I datfile
is a
.BR DAT -format
file specifying 
.I N
vectors,
each of which have
.I vector_dimension
components.
Here,
.I N
is 
.IR "N " =
.BI floor( M
/
.IB vector_dimension )
where
.I M
is the total number of floating-point values in 
.IR asciifile .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dattoascii (3),
.BR QccDataset (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them and/or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
