.TH DATDIST 1 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
datdist \- calculate the distortion between two DAT files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B datdist
.RB "[\|" \-vo "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-mse "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-psnr "\|]"
.I datfile1
.I datfile2
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-vo
Output only the value of the distortion (terse output).
.TP
.B \-mse
Express the distortion in terms of MSE.
.TP
.B \-psnr
Express the distortion in terms of PSNR.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B datdist
prints
the mean square error (MSE) or
peak signal-to-noise ratio (PSNR)
between DAT-format files
.I datfile1
and
.I datfile2
to stdout.
.LP
The options
.B \-mse 
and
.B \-psnr
indicate in which form the distortion should be expressed.
If neither of these
options are specified, 
.B datdist
prints the distortion in both forms.
.LP
If the option
.B \-vo
is specified,
then 
.B datdist
prints a terse output, consisting of only the value of the distortion,
to stdout.  One of the options
.B \-mse 
or
.B \-psnr
must be specified in this case.
.LP
For the calculation of PSNR,
.B datfile1
is considered the original signal; 
.B datdist
thus uses 
.I max
-
.I min
as the
peak-to-peak range of
.BR datfile1 ,
where 
.I max
and
.I min
are specified in the header of
.B datfile1
(see
.BR QccPack (1)).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR imgdist (1),
.BR QccDatasetMSE (3),
.BR QccDataset (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them and/or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
