.TH SPAWN 1 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
spawn \- runs a simple command in the background
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B spawn
.RB "[\|" \-n
.IR  level "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-t "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-l
.IR  log\_file "\|]"
.I command
.RI  "[\|" arguments... "\|]"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-n " level"
Integer. Optional nice level.
.TP
.B \-t 
Use 
.B /usr/bin/time
to time the execution.
.TP
.BI \-l " log\_file"
String. Name for log file.  In the absence of this option,
the file "log" is used.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B spawn
is a shell script designed to start the execution of the specified simple
.IR command
with the given arguments.
The
.I command
is run in the background; specifically,
.B spawn
executes
.I command
in a sub-shell (Bourne shell).  This sub-shell will be niced to level
.I level
if the
.B \-n
option is specified.  The stdout and stderror of the sub-shell is
redirected to
.IR log\_file ,
or, if the 
.B \-l
option is not given,
to a file named "log".
If the option
.B \-t
is specified, then
.B spawn
uses 
.B /usr/bin/time
to time the execution of the sub-shell.
.LP
.I log\_file
(or "log" if
.B \-l
is not given)
is stamped with the name of the host and the date and time of the start of
the execution of the sub-shell.  The stdout and stderr of the sub-shell
are then redirected to
.IR log\_file .
Finally, after the sub-shell exits,
the date and time of the sub-shell termination are recorded to 
.IR log\_file .

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR nice (1),
.BR /usr/bin/time (1),
.BR QccPack (3)

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them and/or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
