.TH QCCWAVSUBBANDPYRAMIDDWT 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccWAVSubbandPyramidDWT, QccWAVSubbandPyramidInverseDWT \- 
separable 2D discrete wavelet transform and inverse transform
for subband-pyramid data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccWAVSubbandPyramidDWT(QccWAVSubbandPyramid *" subband_pyramid ", int " num_levels ", const QccWAVWavelet *" wavelet );
.br
.BI "int QccWAVSubbandPyramidInverseDWT(QccWAVSubbandPyramid *" subband_pyramid ", const QccWAVWavelet *" wavelet );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B QccWAVSubbandPyramidDWT()
calls
.BR QccWAVWaveletDWT2D (3)
to perform a separable 2D discrete wavelet transform (DWT) on the
.I matrix
field of
.IR subband_pyramid .
.I num_levels
is the number of levels (scales) of decomposition to perform;
the 
.I num_levels
field of
.I subband_pyramid
is set to
.IR num_levels .
The
.IR origin_row ,
.IR origin_col ,
.IR subsample_pattern_row ,
and
.IR subsample_pattern_col
parameters as needed for
.BR QccWAVWaveletDWT2D (3)
are extracted from the corresponding fields of
.IR subband_pyramid .
.LP
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramidInverseDWT()
calls
.BR QccWAVWaveletInverseDWT2D (3)
to perform a separable 2D inverse DWT on the
.I matrix
field of
.IR subband_pyramid .
The number of levels of the inverse transform is retrieved from the
.I num_levels
field of
.IR subband_pyramid ;
.I num_levels
is set to 0 upon return of
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramidInverseDWT().
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
These routines
return 0 on success and 1 on error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccWAVWaveletDWT2D (3),
.BR QccWAVWaveletInverseDWT2D (3),
.BR QccWAVWavelet (3),
.BR QccPackWAV (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.LP
M. Antonini, M. Barlaud, P. Mathieu, and I. Daubechies,
"Image Coding Using Wavelet Transform,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Image Processing" ,
vol. 1, pp. 205-220, April 1992.
.LP
I. Daubechies and W. Sweldens,
"Factoring Wavelet Transforms Into Lifting Steps,"
.IR "J. Fourier Anal. Appl." ,
vol. 4, no. 3, pp. 245-267, 1998.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.



