.TH QCCWAVSUBBANDPYRAMIDINTZEROSUBBAND 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccWAVSubbandPyramidIntZeroSubband,
QccWAVSubbandPyramidIntSubtractMean,
QccWAVSubbandPyramidIntAddMean \- 
operations on integer-valued subband pyramids
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccWAVSubbandPyramidIntZeroSubband(QccWAVSubbandPyramidInt *" subband_pyramid ", int " subband );
.br
.BI "int QccWAVSubbandPyramidIntSubtractMean(QccWAVSubbandPyramidInt *" subband_pyramid ", int *" mean );
.br
.BI "int QccWAVSubbandPyramidIntAddMean(QccWAVSubbandPyramidInt *" subband_pyramid ", int " mean );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramidIntZeroSubband()
sets the coefficients of the specified
.I subband
in
.I subband_pyramid
to zero.
.I subband
is the subband number of the desired subband (see 
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramidInt (3)
for more detail on addressing individual subbands in the
subband-pyramid structure).
.LP
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramidIntSubtractMean()
calculates the mean value of the coefficients of the baseband of
.IR subband_pyramid 
using
.BR QccMatrixIntMean (3),
rounds the mean to the nearest integer,
and subtracts the result from the baseband coefficients.
If
.I mean
is
.RB non- NULL ,
the value subtracted from the coefficients (the integer-valued mean)
is returned as
.IR mean .
.LP
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramidIntAddMean()
adds value
.I mean
to all baseband coefficients of
.IR subband_pyramid .
It is intended to implement the reverse 
operation of
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramidIntSubtractMean() ,
so
.I mean
would be returned from this latter routine in most cases.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
These routines return 0 on success, and 1 on failure.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramidIntDWT (3),
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramidIntInverseDWT (3),
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramidInt (3),
.BR QccPackWAV (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.LP
A. R. Calderbank, I. Daubechies, W. Sweldens, B.-L. Yeo, "Lossless
Image Compression Using Integer to Integer Wavelet Transforms", in
.IR "Proceedings of the International Conference on Image Processing" ,
Lausanne, Switzerland, pp. 596-599, September 1997.

Z. Xiong, X. Wu, S. Cheng, J. Hua, "Lossy-to-Lossless Compression of
Medical Volumetric Data Using Three-Dimensional Integer Wavelet Transforms,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Medical Imaging" ,
vol. 22, pp. 459-470, March 2003.

M. Antonini, M. Barlaud, P. Mathieu, and I. Daubechies,
"Image Coding Using Wavelet Transform,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Image Processing" ,
vol. 1, pp. 205-220, April 1992.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

