.TH QCCWAVSUBBANDPYRAMID3DDWT 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DPacketToDyadic,
QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DDyadicToPacket \- 
reorganize subband-pyramid DWT coefficients
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DPacketToDyadic(QccWAVSubbandPyramid3D *" subband_pyramid ", int " num_levels );
.br
.BI "int QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DDyadicToPacket(QccWAVSubbandPyramid3D *" subband_pyramid ", int " temporal_num_levels ", int " spatial_num_levels );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DPacketToDyadic()
uses a series of inverse Lazy wavelet transforms followed by
a series of forward Lazy wavelet transforms to reorganize the coefficients
of a wavelet-packet subband pyramid into a dyadic structure.
The resulting dyadic arrangement is not a "true" dyadic decomposition,
but rather is the wavelet-packet coefficients organized in a structure
that resembles the dyadic subband-pyramid structure.
.IR num_levels
indicates the number of levels of dyadic decomposition that the
resulting dyadic organization will have.
.LP
.B QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DDyadicToPacket()
does the opposite operation; that is, 
.B QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DDyadicToPacket()
reorganizes a dyadic subband pyramid to resemble the wavelet-packet
subband-pyramid structure. 
In this case,
.IR temporal_num_levels
and
.IR spatial_num_levels
indicates the number of levels of temporal and spatial
decomposition, respectively, that the
resulting wavelet-packet organization will have.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
These routines
return 0 on success and 1 on error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramidDWT3D (3),
.BR QccWAVWavelet (3),
.BR QccPackWAV (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.LP
B.-J. Kim, Z. Xiong, and W. A. Pearlman,
"Low Bit-Rate Scalable Video Coding with 3-D Set Partitioning
in Hierarchical Trees (3-D SPIHT),"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology" ,
vol. 10, no. 8, pp. 1374-1387, December 2000.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.



