.TH QCCWAVZEROTREEREAD 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccWAVZerotreeRead
QccWAVZerotreeWrite
 \- 
read and write zerotree structures to
.BR ZT -format
files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccWAVZerotreeRead(QccWAVZerotree *" zerotree );
.br
.BI "int QccWAVZerotreeWrite(const QccWAVZerotree *" zerotree );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.BR QccWAVZerotreeRead()
reads the
.BR ZT -format
file specifed by
.IR zerotree -> filename
into 
.IR zerotree .
If 
.I zerotree
is not already allocated (as evidenced by
.IR zerotree -> zerotree
= NULL), a call is made to
.BR QccWAVZerotreeAlloc (3)
to allocate space for the zerotree data before reading the file.
.LP
.BR QccWAVZerotreeWrite()
writes the zerotree structure in
.I zerotree
as the
.BR ZT -format
file whose name is given as
.IR zerotree -> filename .
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
These routines return 0 on success, and 1 on failure.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccWAVZerotree (3),
.BR QccPackWAV (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.LP
J. M. Shapiro,
"Embedded Image Coding Using Zerotrees of Wavelet Coefficients,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing" ,
vol. 41, no. 12, pp. 3445-3462, December 1993.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

