.TH QCCWAVSUBBANDPYRAMID3DINTSHAPEADAPTIVEDWT 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntShapeAdaptiveDWT,
QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntInverseShapeAdaptiveDWT \- 
separable 3D shape-adaptive discrete wavelet transform and inverse transform
for integer-valued subband-pyramid data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntShapeAdaptiveDWT(QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DInt *" subband_pyramid ", QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DInt *" mask ", int " transform_type ", int " temporal_num_levels ", int " spatial_num_levels ", const QccWAVWavelet *" wavelet );
.br
.BI "int QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntInverseShapeAdaptiveDWT(QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DInt *" subband_pyramid ", QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DInt *" mask ", const QccWAVWavelet *" wavelet );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntShapeAdaptiveDWT()
performs a separable 3D shape-adaptive
discrete wavelet transform (SA-DWT) on the
.I volume
field of
.IR subband_pyramid .
.IR transform_type
determines whether the transform is a dyadic or wavelet-packet
decomposition. For a dyadic decomposition,
.IR transform_type
should be
.BR QCCWAVSUBBANDPYRAMID3DINT_DYADIC ;
for a wavelet-packet decomposition,
.IR transform_type
should be
.BR QCCWAVSUBBANDPYRAMID3DINT_PACKET .
.B QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntShapeAdaptiveDWT()
implements the wavelet transform with a call to
.BR QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptiveDyadicDWT3DInt (3)
or
.BR QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptivePacketDWT3DInt (3)
as appropriate
.LP
If a dyadic decomposition is chosen
.RI ( transform_type
equal to
.BR QCCWAVSUBBANDPYRAMID3DINT_DYADIC ),
.I spatial_num_levels
and
.I temporal_num_levels
must be set to the same value which indicates
the number of levels (scales) of dyadic decomposition to perform.
In this case, both the 
.I spatial_num_levels
and
.I temporal_num_levels
fields of
.I subband_pyramid
are set to this value.
Alternatively, if a wavelet-packet decomposition is chosen
.RI ( transform_type
equal to
.BR QCCWAVSUBBANDPYRAMID3DINT_PACKET ),
then
.I spatial_num_levels
and
.I temporal_num_levels
may be different and indicate the number of spatial decompositions and
temporal decompositions, respectively, performed when
calculating the wavelet-packet transform.
.LP
.IR mask
is the transparency mask defining the shape of the data to be transformed;
the
.I volume
field of
.I mask
is passed as the transparency mask to
.BR QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptiveDyadicDWT3DInt (3)
or
.BR QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptivePacketDWT3DInt (3).
During the process of performing the 3D SA-DWT, the
.I mask
is transformed with a Lazy wavelet transform so as to correctly indicate
where valid coefficients reside in the wavelet domain in the transformed
.IR subband_pyramid .
The transformed mask is return in
.I mask
upon completion of
.BR QccWAVWaveletSubbandPyramid3DIntShapeAdaptiveDWT() .
.LP
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntInverseShapeAdaptiveDWT()
calls
.BR QccWAVWaveletInverseShapeAdaptiveDyadicDWT3DInt (3)
or
.BR QccWAVWaveletInverseShapeAdaptivePacketDWT3DInt (3)
to perform a separable 3D inverse SA-DWT on the
.I volume
field of
.IR subband_pyramid .
The
.IR transform_type
field of
.IR subband_pyramid 
indicates the type (dyadic or wavelet-packet) of transform,
while the numbers of levels of the inverse transform is retrieved from the
.I spatial_num_levels
and
.I temporal_num_levels
fields of
.IR subband_pyramid .
Both
.I spatial_num_levels
and
.I temporal_num_levels
are set to 0 upon return of
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntInverseShapeAdaptiveDWT() .
.I mask
should be the Lazy-wavelet transformed mask that was output by
.BR QccWAVWaveletSubbandPyramid3DIntShapeAdaptiveDWT() .
Upon return from
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntInverseShapeAdaptiveDWT() ,
.I mask
is the original transparency mask; i.e., the mask that
indicates where valid data resides in the original spatial domain.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
These routines
return 0 on success and 1 on error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptiveDyadicDWT3DInt (3),
.BR QccWAVWaveletInversShapeAdaptiveDyadicDWT3DInt (3),
.BR QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptivePacketDWT3DInt (3),
.BR QccWAVWaveletInversShapeAdaptivePacketDWT3DInt (3),
.BR QccWAVWavelet (3),
.BR QccPackWAV (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.LP
A. R. Calderbank, I. Daubechies, W. Sweldens, B.-L. Yeo, "Lossless
Image Compression Using Integer to Integer Wavelet Transforms", in
.IR "Proceedings of the International Conference on Image Processing" ,
Lausanne, Switzerland, pp. 596-599, September 1997.

Z. Xiong, X. Wu, S. Cheng, J. Hua, "Lossy-to-Lossless Compression of
Medical Volumetric Data Using Three-Dimensional Integer Wavelet Transforms,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Medical Imaging" ,
vol. 22, pp. 459-470, March 2003.

S. Li and W. Li, "Shape-Adaptive Discrete Wavelet Transforms for
Arbitrarily Shaped Visual Object Coding,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Coding" ,
vol. 10, pp. 725-743, August 2000.
.LP

ISO/IEC 14496-2, "Information Technology -- Coding of audio-visual objects --
Part 2: Visual," 
.IR "MPEG-4 Standard" ,
Amendment 1, July 2000.

B.-J. Kim, Z. Xiong, and W. A. Pearlman,
"Low Bit-Rate Scalable Video Coding with 3-D Set Partitioning
in Hierarchical Trees (3-D SPIHT),"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology" ,
vol. 10, no. 8, pp. 1374-1387, December 2000.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.



