.TH QCCWAVZEROTREENULLSYMBOL 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccWAVZerotreeNullSymbol,
QccWAVZerotreeMakeSymbolNull,
QccWAVZerotreeMakeSymbolNonnull
 \- 
operations on zerotree symbols
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccWAVZerotreeNullSymbol(const char " symbol );
.br
.BI "int QccWAVZerotreeMakeSymbolNull(char *" symbol );
.br
.BI "int QccWAVZerotreeMakeSymbolNonnull(char *" symbol );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The 
.BR QccWAVZerotree
structure contains an array of symbols, one for
each coefficient in the corresponding subband pyramid.
The value of each symbol can be one of the following:
.TP
.B QCCWAVZEROTREE_SYMBOLSIGNIFICANT
The corresponding coefficient is significant.
.TP
.B QCCWAVZEROTREE_SYMBOLINSIGNIFICANT
The corresponding coefficient is insignificant.
.TP
.B QCCWAVZEROTREE_SYMBOLZTROOT
The corresponding coefficient is a zerotree root.
.TP
.B QCCWAVZEROTREE_SYMBOLTEMP
A temporary label for the coefficient.
.LP
Any one of the valid symbols above can be marked as "null" using the
function
.BR QccWAVZerotreeMakeSymbolNull().
This is done in such a way so that the original value of the symbol is
not lost.  Specifically, the values
.BR QCCWAVZEROTREE_SYMBOLSIGNIFICANT ,
.BR QCCWAVZEROTREE_SYMBOLINSIGNIFICANT ,
.BR QCCWAVZEROTREE_SYMBOLZTROOT ,
and
.B QCCWAVZEROTREE_SYMBOLTEMP
are all defined as
positive constants; these symbols are marked "null" by making
them negative.  To recover the original value of the symbol,
.BR QccWAVZerotreeMakeSymbolNonnull()
makes the symbol positive again.
Finally,
.BR QccWAVZerotreeNullSymbol()
returns 1 if
.I symbol
is "null" and 0 otherwise.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Except for
.BR QccWAVZerotreeNullSymbol() ,
these routines return 0 on success, and 1 on failure.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccWAVZerotree (3),
.BR QccPackWAV (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.LP
J. M. Shapiro,
"Embedded Image Coding Using Zerotrees of Wavelet Coefficients,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing" ,
vol. 41, no. 12, pp. 3445-3462, December 1993.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

