.TH QCCWAVWAVELETANALYSIS3D 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccWAVWaveletAnalysis3D, QccWAVWaveletSynthesis3D \- 
separable wavelet analysis/synthesis of a 3D signal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccWAVWaveletAnalysis3D(QccVolume " volume ", int " num_frames ", int " num_rows ", int " num_cols ", int " phase_frame ", int " phase_row ", int " phase_col ", const QccWAVWavelet *" wavelet );
.sp
.BI "int QccWAVWaveletSynthesis3D(QccVolume " volume ", int " num_frames ", int " num_rows ", int " num_cols ", int " phase_frame ", int " phase_row ", int " phase_col ", const QccWAVWavelet *" wavelet );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B QccWAVWaveletAnalysis3D()
performs one level of a separable 3D wavelet decomposition for
a three-dimensional signal,
.IR volume ,
which is represented as a volume of
.IR num_frames
frames,
.I num_rows
rows, and
.I num_cols
columns.
Essentially,
.BR QccWAVWaveletAnalysis3D()
calls
.BR QccWAVWaveletAnalysis2D (3)
once for each frame of the volume, and then
.BR QccWAVWaveletAnalysis1D (3)
for each vector in the temporal direction.
.IR phase_frame ,
.IR phase_row ,
and
.I phase_col
indicate whether the frames, rows, and columns, respectively, of the image
start with even- or odd-indexed samples.
Usually, one assumes that the upper corner of the image cube is
indexed as (0, 0, 0) - in this case, 
.IR phase_frame ,
.IR phase_row ,
and
.I phase_col
would all be
.BR QCCWAVWAVELET_PHASE_EVEN .
In any event,
.IR phase_frame ,
.IR phase_row ,
and
.IR phase_col
are passed 
with each call to 
.BR QccWAVWaveletAnalysis2D (3)
and
.BR QccWAVWaveletAnalysis1D (3)
as appropriate.
The result of the separable decomposition is returned in
.IR volume .
.LP
.B QccWAVWaveletSynthesis3D()
performs one level of separable wavelet synthesis
for a 3D signal.
Subbands in 
.I volume
are assumed to be organized as described above for the output of
.BR QccWAVWaveletAnalysis3D() .
.B QccWAVWaveletSynthesis3D()
calls
.BR QccWAVWaveletSynthesis1D (3)
once for each vector in the temporal direction, then
.BR QccWAVWaveletSynthesis2D (3)
for each frame.
The result of the separable wavelet synthesis is returned in
.IR volume .
.LP
Note:
In general, you will probably want to use
.BR QccWAVWaveletDyadicDWT3D (3)
and
.BR QccWAVWaveletInverseDyadicDWT3D (3),
or
.BR QccWAVWaveletPacketDWT3D (3)
and
.BR QccWAVWaveletInversePacketDWT3D (3),
for implementing a discrete wavelet transform and its inverse since
these routines
allow any number of scales, or levels, of decomposition to be
performed.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
These routines
return 0 on success and 1 on error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccWAVWaveletAnalysis1D (3),
.BR QccWAVWaveletSynthesis1D (3),
.BR QccWAVWaveletAnalysis2D (3),
.BR QccWAVWaveletSynthesis2D (3),
.BR QccWAVWaveletDyadicDWT3D (3),
.BR QccWAVWaveletInverseDyadicDWT3D (3),
.BR QccWAVWaveletPacketDWT3D (3),
.BR QccWAVWaveletInversePacketDWT3D (3),
.BR QccWAVWavelet (3),
.BR QccPackWAV (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.LP
B.-J. Kim, Z. Xiong, and W. A. Pearlman,
"Low Bit-Rate Scalable Video Coding with 3-D Set Partitioning
in Hierarchical Trees (3-D SPIHT),"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology" ,
vol. 10, no. 8, pp. 1374-1387, December 2000.
.LP
M. Antonini, M. Barlaud, P. Mathieu, and I. Daubechies,
"Image Coding Using Wavelet Transform,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Image Processing" ,
vol. 1, pp. 205-220, April 1992.
.LP
I. Daubechies and W. Sweldens,
"Factoring Wavelet Transforms Into Lifting Steps,"
.IR "J. Fourier Anal. Appl." ,
vol. 4, no. 3, pp. 245-267, 1998.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.



