.TH QCCWAVSUBBANDPYRAMID3DDWT 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DDWT, QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DInverseDWT \- 
separable 3D discrete wavelet transform and inverse transform
for subband-pyramid data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DDWT(QccWAVSubbandPyramid3D *" subband_pyramid ", int " transform_type ", int " temporal_num_levels ", int " spatial_num_levels ", const QccWAVWavelet *" wavelet );
.br
.BI "int QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DInverseDWT(QccWAVSubbandPyramid3D *" subband_pyramid ", const QccWAVWavelet *" wavelet );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DDWT()
performs a separable 3D discrete wavelet transform (DWT) on the
.I volume
field of
.IR subband_pyramid .
.IR transform_type
determines whether the transform is a dyadic or wavelet-packet
decomposition. For a dyadic decomposition,
.IR transform_type
should be
.BR QCCWAVSUBBANDPYRAMID3D_DYADIC ;
for a wavelet-packet decomposition,
.IR transform_type
should be
.BR QCCWAVSUBBANDPYRAMID3D_PACKET .
.B QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DDWT()
implements the wavelet transform with a call to
.BR QccWAVWaveletDyadicDWT3D (3)
or
.BR QccWAVWaveletPacketDWT3D (3)
as appropriate.
.LP
If a dyadic decomposition is chosen
.RI ( transform_type
equal to
.BR QCCWAVSUBBANDPYRAMID3D_DYADIC ),
.I spatial_num_levels
and
.I temporal_num_levels
must be set to the same value which indicates
the number of levels (scales) of dyadic decomposition to perform.
In this case, both the 
.I spatial_num_levels
and
.I temporal_num_levels
fields of
.I subband_pyramid
are set to this value.
Alternatively, if a wavelet-packet decomposition is chosen
.RI ( transform_type
equal to
.BR QCCWAVSUBBANDPYRAMID3D_PACKET ),
then
.I spatial_num_levels
and
.I temporal_num_levels
may be different and indicate the number of spatial decompositions and
temporal decompositions, respectively, performed when
calculating the wavelet-packet transform.
.LP
The
.IR origin_frame ,
.IR origin_row ,
.IR origin_col ,
.IR subsample_pattern_frame ,
.IR subsample_pattern_row ,
and
.IR subsample_pattern_col
parameters as needed for
.BR QccWAVWaveletDyadicDWT3D (3)
or
.BR QccWAVWaveletPacketDWT3D (3)
are extracted from the corresponding fields of
.IR subband_pyramid .
.LP
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DInverseDWT()
calls
.BR QccWAVWaveletInverseDyadicDWT3D (3)
or
.BR QccWAVWaveletInversePacketDWT3D (3)
to perform a separable 3D inverse DWT on the
.I volume
field of
.IR subband_pyramid .
The
.IR transform_type
field of
.IR subband_pyramid 
indicates the type (dyadic or wavelet-packet) of transform,
while the numbers of levels of the inverse transform is retrieved from the
.I spatial_num_levels
and
.I temporal_num_levels
fields of
.IR subband_pyramid .
Both
.I spatial_num_levels
and
.I temporal_num_levels
are set to 0 upon return of
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DInverseDWT().
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
These routines
return 0 on success and 1 on error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccWAVWaveletDyadicDWT3D (3),
.BR QccWAVWaveletInverseDyadicDWT3D (3),
.BR QccWAVWaveletPacketDWT3D (3),
.BR QccWAVWaveletInversePacketDWT3D (3),
.BR QccWAVWavelet (3),
.BR QccPackWAV (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.LP
B.-J. Kim, Z. Xiong, and W. A. Pearlman,
"Low Bit-Rate Scalable Video Coding with 3-D Set Partitioning
in Hierarchical Trees (3-D SPIHT),"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology" ,
vol. 10, no. 8, pp. 1374-1387, December 2000.
.LP
M. Antonini, M. Barlaud, P. Mathieu, and I. Daubechies,
"Image Coding Using Wavelet Transform,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Image Processing" ,
vol. 1, pp. 205-220, April 1992.
.LP
I. Daubechies and W. Sweldens,
"Factoring Wavelet Transforms Into Lifting Steps,"
.IR "J. Fourier Anal. Appl." ,
vol. 4, no. 3, pp. 245-267, 1998.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.



