.TH QCCWAVSHAPEADAPTIVEMASKBAR 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccWAVShapeAdaptiveMaskBAR \-
calculate the boundary-to-area ratio (BAR) for a transparency mask
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccWAVShapeAdaptiveMaskBAR(const QccMatrix " mask ", int " num_rows ", int " num_cols ", double *" bar_value );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B QccWAVShapeAdaptiveMaskBAR()
measures the "complexity" of the shape of a transparency mask with a
boundary-to-area ratio (BAR) defined as the total number of mask pixels
that lie on the boundary of the opaque object expressed as a
proportion of the total number of opaque pixels in the object.
The calculated BAR value is returned in
.IR bar_value .
.SH NOTES
The BAR metric was first proposed by Fowler (see below).
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.BR QccWAVShapeAdaptiveMaskBAR()
returns 0 on success and 1 on error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptiveDWT2D (3),
.BR QccWAVWaveletInverseShapeAdaptiveDWT2D (3),
.BR QccWAVWavelet (3),
.BR QccPackWAV (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.LP
J. E. Fowler,
"Shape-Adaptive Tarp Coding,"
submitted to the
.IR "2003 International Conference on Image Processing" ,
Barcelona, Spain, December 2002.
.LP
S. Li and W. Li, "Shape-Adaptive Discrete Wavelet Transforms for
Arbitrarily Shaped Visual Object Coding,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Coding" ,
vol. 10, pp. 725-743, August 2000.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.



