.TH QCCWAVSUBBANDPYRAMIDINTSHAPEADAPTIVEDWT 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccWAVSubbandPyramidIntShapeAdaptiveDWT,
QccWAVSubbandPyramidIntInverseShapeAdaptiveDWT \- 
separable 2D shape-adaptive discrete wavelet transform and inverse transform
for integer-valued subband-pyramid data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccWAVSubbandPyramidIntShapeAdaptiveDWT(QccWAVSubbandPyramidInt *" subband_pyramid ", QccWAVSubbandPyramidInt *" mask ", int " num_levels ", const QccWAVWavelet *" wavelet );
.br
.BI "int QccWAVSubbandPyramidIntInverseShapeAdaptiveDWT(QccWAVSubbandPyramidInt *" subband_pyramid ", QccWAVSubbandPyramidInt *" mask ", const QccWAVWavelet *" wavelet );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B QccWAVSubbandPyramidIntShapeAdaptiveDWT()
calls
.BR QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptiveDWT2DInt (3)
to perform a separable 2D shape-adaptive
discrete wavelet transform (SA-DWT) on the
.I matrix
field of
.IR subband_pyramid .
.I num_levels
is the number of levels (scales) of decomposition to perform;
the 
.I num_levels
field of
.I subband_pyramid
is set to
.IR num_levels .
.IR mask
is the transparency mask defining the shape of the data to be transformed;
the
.I matrix
field of
.I mask
is passed as the transparency mask to
.BR QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptiveDWT2DInt (3).
During the process of performing the 2D SA-DWT, the
.I mask
is transformed with a Lazy wavelet transform so as to correctly indicate
where valid coefficients reside in the wavelet domain in the transformed
.IR subband_pyramid .
The transformed mask is return in
.I mask
upon completion of
.BR QccWAVWaveletSubbandPyramidIntShapeAdaptiveDWT() .
.LP
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramidIntInverseShapeAdaptiveDWT()
calls
.BR QccWAVWaveletInverseShapeAdaptiveDWT2DInt (3)
to perform a separable 2D inverse SA-DWT on the
.I matrix
field of
.IR subband_pyramid .
The number of levels of the inverse transform is retrieved from the
.I num_levels
field of
.IR subband_pyramid ;
.I num_levels
is set to 0 upon return of
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramidIntInverseShapeAdaptiveDWT() .
.I mask
should be the Lazy-wavelet transformed mask that was output by
.BR QccWAVWaveletSubbandPyramidIntShapeAdaptiveDWT() .
Upon return from
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramidIntInverseShapeAdaptiveDWT() ,
.I mask
is the original transparency mask; i.e., the mask that
indicates where valid data resides in the original spatial domain.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
These routines
return 0 on success and 1 on error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptiveDWT2DInt (3),
.BR QccWAVWaveletInversShapeAdaptiveDWT2DInt (3),
.BR QccWAVWavelet (3),
.BR QccPackWAV (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.LP
A. R. Calderbank, I. Daubechies, W. Sweldens, B.-L. Yeo, "Lossless
Image Compression Using Integer to Integer Wavelet Transforms", in
.IR "Proceedings of the International Conference on Image Processing" ,
Lausanne, Switzerland, pp. 596-599, September 1997.

Z. Xiong, X. Wu, S. Cheng, J. Hua, "Lossy-to-Lossless Compression of
Medical Volumetric Data Using Three-Dimensional Integer Wavelet Transforms,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Medical Imaging" ,
vol. 22, pp. 459-470, March 2003.

S. Li and W. Li, "Shape-Adaptive Discrete Wavelet Transforms for
Arbitrarily Shaped Visual Object Coding,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Coding" ,
vol. 10, pp. 725-743, August 2000.

ISO/IEC 14496-2, "Information Technology -- Coding of audio-visual objects --
Part 2: Visual," 
.IR "MPEG-4 Standard" ,
Amendment 1, July 2000.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.



