.TH QCCWAVZEROTREEREAD 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
 \- 
mark descendants of zerotree-root symbol as null/non-null
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccWAVZerotreeCarveOutZerotree(QccWAVZerotree *" zerotree ", int " subband ", int " row ", int " col );
.br
.BI "int QccWAVZerotreeUndoZerotree(QccWAVZerotree *" zerotree ", int " subband ", int " row ", int " col );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.BR QccWAVZerotreeCarveOutZerotree()
marks all the zerotree symbols in the "shadow" (i.e., those symbols which are
descendants of the zerotree root symbol) as null symbols in the manner of
.BR QccWAVZerotreeMakeSymbolNull (3).
.I row
and
.I col
give the row-column address of the zerotree-root symbol within 
the subband of the zerotree
array, and 
.I subband
is the subband number in which the zerotree-root symbol is located.
Note: the zerotree-root symbol is not modified - only its descendants are
touched.
.LP
.BR QccWAVZerotreeUndoZerotree()
reverses the effects of
.BR QccWAVZerotreeCarveOutZerotree()
by marking all descendant symbols of the zerotree-root symbol as non-null,
and restoring the symbols to their values prior to the initial
call to
.BR QccWAVZerotreeCarveOutZerotree() .
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
These routines return 0 on success, and 1 on failure.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccWAVZerotree (3),
.BR QccPackWAV (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.LP
J. M. Shapiro,
"Embedded Image Coding Using Zerotrees of Wavelet Coefficients,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing" ,
vol. 41, no. 12, pp. 3445-3462, December 1993.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

