.TH QCCWAVSUBBANDPYRAMIDZEROSUBBAND 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccWAVSubbandPyramidZeroSubband,
QccWAVSubbandPyramidSubtractMean,
QccWAVSubbandPyramidAddMean \- 
operations on subband pyramids
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccWAVSubbandPyramidZeroSubband(QccWAVSubbandPyramid *" subband_pyramid ", int " subband );
.br
.BI "int QccWAVSubbandPyramidSubtractMean(QccWAVSubbandPyramid *" subband_pyramid ", double *" mean ", const QccSQScalarQuantizer *" quantizer );
.br
.BI "int QccWAVSubbandPyramidAddMean(QccWAVSubbandPyramid *" subband_pyramid ", double " mean );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramidZeroSubband()
sets the coefficients of the specified
.I subband
in
.I subband_pyramid
to zero.
.I subband
is the subband number of the desired subband (see 
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid (3)
for more detail on addressing individual subbands in the
subband-pyramid structure).
.LP
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramidSubtractMean()
calculates the mean value of the coefficients of the baseband of
.IR subband_pyramid ,
optionally quantizes it with a scalar
.IR quantizer ,
and subtracts the result from the baseband coefficients.
If
.I quantizer
is
.RB non- NULL ,
.BR QccSQScalarQuantization (3) 
and
.BR QccSQScalarInverseQuantization (3)
are called in succession to quantize the calculated mean, and this
quantized mean is subtracted from
the baseband coefficients in
.IR subband_pyramid .
If
.I quantizer
is
.BR NULL ,
no quantization is performed so that the calculated mean is subtracted
directly.
If
.I mean
is
.RB non- NULL ,
the value subtracted from the coefficients (either the mean or the
quantized mean) is returned as
.IR mean .
.LP
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramidAddMean()
adds value
.I mean
to all baseband coefficients of
.IR subband_pyramid .
It is intended to implement the reverse 
operation of
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramidSubtractMean() ,
so
.I mean
would be returned from this latter routine in most cases.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
These routines return 0 on success, and 1 on failure.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccSQScalarQuantization (3),
.BR QccSQScalarInverseQuantization (3),
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramidDWT (3),
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramidInverseDWT (3),
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid (3),
.BR QccPackWAV (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.LP
M. Antonini, M. Barlaud, P. Mathieu, and I. Daubechies,
"Image Coding Using Wavelet Transform,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Image Processing" ,
vol. 1, pp. 205-220, April 1992.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

