.TH QCCWAVWAVELETSHAPEADAPTIVEDYADICDWT3DINT 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptiveDyadicDWT3DInt,
QccWAVWaveletInverseShapeAdaptiveDyadicDWT3DInt \- 
integer-valued separable dyadic 3D shape-adaptive discrete
wavelet transform and inverse transform for a 3D signal
.sp
QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptivePacketDWT3DInt,
QccWAVWaveletInverseShapeAdaptivePacketDWT3DInt \- 
integer-valued separable wavelet-packet 3D shape-adaptive discrete
wavelet transform and inverse transform for a 3D signal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptiveDyadicDWT3DInt(const QccVolumeInt " signal ", QccVolumeInt " mask ", QccVolumeInt " signal ", QccVolumeInt " mask ", int " num_frames ", int " num_rows ", int " num_cols ", int " spatial_num_scales ", const QccWAVWavelet *" wavelet );
.sp
.BI "int QccWAVWaveletInverseShapeAdaptiveDyadicDWT3DInt(const QccVolumeInt " signal ", QccVolumeInt " mask ", QccVolumeInt " signal ", QccVolumeInt " mask ", int " num_frames ", int " num_rows ", int " num_cols ", int " spatial_num_scales ", const QccWAVWavelet *" wavelet );
.sp
.BI "int QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptivePacketDWT3DInt(const QccVolumeInt " signal ", QccVolumeInt " mask ", QccVolumeInt " signal ", QccVolumeInt " mask ", int " num_frames ", int " num_rows ", int " num_cols ", int " temporal_num_scales ", int " spatial_num_scales ", const QccWAVWavelet *" wavelet );
.sp
.BI "int QccWAVWaveletInverseShapeAdaptivePacketDWT3DInt(const QccVolumeInt " signal ", QccVolumeInt " mask ", QccVolumeInt " signal ", QccVolumeInt " mask ", int " num_frames ", int " num_rows ", int " num_cols ", int " temporal_num_scales ", int " spatial_num_scales ", const QccWAVWavelet *" wavelet );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptiveDyadicDWT3DInt()
and 
.B QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptivePacketDWT3DInt()
both perform an integer-valued separable 3D
shape-adaptive discrete wavelet transform (SA-DWT) of a
three-dimensional signal,
.IR signal ,
which is represented as a volume of
.IR num_frames 
frames,
.IR num_rows
rows, and
.I num_cols
columns.
.LP
.BR QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptiveDyadicDWT3DInt()
implements a dyadic decomposition of
.IR signal ;
that is, the low-low subband (baseband)
is recursively decomposed into one lowpass band and
seven highpass bands for each level of decomposition.
.I spatial_num_scales
gives the number of scales, or levels, of the decomposition.
.LP
.BR QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptivePacketDWT3DInt()
implements a wavelet-packet decomposition of
.IR signal ;
that is, 
each temporal vector is decomposed with
.I temporal_num_scales
1D temporal decompositions,
and then each frame of the volume is decomposed with
.I spatial_num_scales
2D spatial decompositions.
.LP
.I mask
indicates where the original input
.I signal
exists. That is, 
.I mask
indicates the regions of support in the original input
.IR signal .
Where
.I mask
is less than or equal to
.BR QCCALPHA_TRANSPARENT ,
there is no signal, and where
.I mask
is greater than
.BR QCCALPHA_TRANSPARENT ,
signal exists and is transformed
(see
.BR QccAlpha (3)).
.LP
Essentially, the 3D SA-DWT is implemented by performing
1D SA-DWTs in each direction;
see 
.BR QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptiveDWT1DInt (3)
for specific details on how this 1D SA-DWT is calculated.
.LP
The transparency mask is transformed (with a 3D Lazy wavelet transform)
alongside the signal so that, upon completion of the transform,
.IR mask
indicates where valid coefficients, i.e., coefficients resulting from
non-transparent regions in the original input signal,
reside in the output
.IR signal .
The transformed mask is returned in
.IR mask ,
overwriting the original input mask.
.LP
Currently, 
.BR QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptiveDWT1DInt()
supports only biorthogonal wavelets. These may be
used with symmetric extension only.
.LP
.B QccWAVWaveletInverseShapeAdaptiveDyadicDWT3DInt()
and
.B QccWAVWaveletInverseShapeAdaptivePacketDWT3DInt()
perform the corresponding separable 3D inverse SA-DWT of
.IR signal
which is assumed to have been produced
by
.BR QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptiveDyadicDWT3DInt() 
or
.BR QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptivePacketDWT3DInt() ,
respectively.
.IR mask
should be the corresponding Lazy-wavelet transformed mask
also produced by
.BR QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptiveDyadicDWT3DInt() 
or
.BR QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptivePacketDWT3DInt() .
.I spatial_num_scales
and
.I temporal_num_scales
give the number of levels of decomposition that exist in
.IR signal .
.LP
Use
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntShapeAdaptiveDWT (3)
and
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntInverseShapeAdaptiveDWT (3)
to perform a 3D separable SA-DWT or inverse SA-DWT on a
.B QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DInt
data structure (which is the recommended way to do it, since the
.B QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DInt
structure stores the number of levels of decomposition along with
the transform coefficients).
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
These routines
return 0 on success and 1 on error.
.SH "NOTES"
SA-DWTs have been recently included in Version 2 of the MPEG-4
standard, wherein they are used for 
texture coding of arbitrarily shaped still objects.
Li and Li (see below) elaborate at length on the shape-adaptive DWT
used in MPEG-4, and also consider some variants not included
in the MPEG-4 standard.
See 
.BR QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptiveDWT1DInt (3)
for details on the differences between the QccPack SA-DWT implementation,
the MPEG-4 specification, and Li and Li's descriptions.
See
.BR QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptiveDWT1DInt (3)
also for a description of how integer-valued lifting is implemented.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptiveDWT1DInt (3),
.BR QccWAVWaveletInverseShapeAdaptiveDWT1DInt (3),
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntShapeAdaptiveDWT (3),
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntInverseShapeAdaptiveDWT (3),
.BR QccWAVWavelet (3),
.BR QccPackWAV (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.LP
S. Li and W. Li, "Shape-Adaptive Discrete Wavelet Transforms for
Arbitrarily Shaped Visual Object Coding,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Coding" ,
vol. 10, pp. 725-743, August 2000.

ISO/IEC 14496-2, "Information Technology -- Coding of audio-visual objects --
Part 2: Visual," 
.IR "MPEG-4 Standard" ,
Amendment 1, July 2000.

A. R. Calderbank, I. Daubechies, W. Sweldens, B.-L. Yeo, "Lossless
Image Compression Using Integer to Integer Wavelet Transforms", in
.IR "Proceedings of the International Conference on Image Processing" ,
Lausanne, Switzerland, pp. 596-599, September 1997.

Z. Xiong, X. Wu, S. Cheng, J. Hua, "Lossy-to-Lossless Compression of
Medical Volumetric Data Using Three-Dimensional Integer Wavelet Transforms,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Medical Imaging" ,
vol. 22, pp. 459-470, March 2003.

I. Daubechies and W. Sweldens,
"Factoring Wavelet Transforms Into Lifting Steps,"
.IR "J. Fourier Anal. Appl." ,
vol. 4, no. 3, pp. 245-267, 1998.

B.-J. Kim, Z. Xiong, and W. A. Pearlman,
"Low Bit-Rate Scalable Video Coding with 3-D Set Partitioning
in Hierarchical Trees (3-D SPIHT),"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology" ,
vol. 10, no. 8, pp. 1374-1387, December 2000.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.



