.TH QCCWAVSUBBANDPYRAMID3DSHAPEADAPTIVEDWT 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DShapeAdaptiveDWT,
QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DInverseShapeAdaptiveDWT \- 
separable 3D shape-adaptive discrete wavelet transform and inverse transform
for subband-pyramid data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DShapeAdaptiveDWT(QccWAVSubbandPyramid3D *" subband_pyramid ", QccWAVSubbandPyramid3D *" mask ", int " transform_type ", int " temporal_num_levels ", int " spatial_num_levels ", const QccWAVWavelet *" wavelet );
.br
.BI "int QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DInverseShapeAdaptiveDWT(QccWAVSubbandPyramid3D *" subband_pyramid ", QccWAVSubbandPyramid3D *" mask ", const QccWAVWavelet *" wavelet );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DShapeAdaptiveDWT()
performs a separable 3D shape-adaptive
discrete wavelet transform (SA-DWT) on the
.I volume
field of
.IR subband_pyramid .
.IR transform_type
determines whether the transform is a dyadic or wavelet-packet
decomposition. For a dyadic decomposition,
.IR transform_type
should be
.BR QCCWAVSUBBANDPYRAMID3D_DYADIC ;
for a wavelet-packet decomposition,
.IR transform_type
should be
.BR QCCWAVSUBBANDPYRAMID3D_PACKET .
.B QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DShapeAdaptiveDWT()
implements the wavelet transform with a call to
.BR QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptiveDyadicDWT3D (3)
or
.BR QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptivePacketDWT3D (3)
as appropriate
.LP
If a dyadic decomposition is chosen
.RI ( transform_type
equal to
.BR QCCWAVSUBBANDPYRAMID3D_DYADIC ),
.I spatial_num_levels
and
.I temporal_num_levels
must be set to the same value which indicates
the number of levels (scales) of dyadic decomposition to perform.
In this case, both the 
.I spatial_num_levels
and
.I temporal_num_levels
fields of
.I subband_pyramid
are set to this value.
Alternatively, if a wavelet-packet decomposition is chosen
.RI ( transform_type
equal to
.BR QCCWAVSUBBANDPYRAMID3D_PACKET ),
then
.I spatial_num_levels
and
.I temporal_num_levels
may be different and indicate the number of spatial decompositions and
temporal decompositions, respectively, performed when
calculating the wavelet-packet transform.
.LP
.IR mask
is the transparency mask defining the shape of the data to be transformed;
the
.I volume
field of
.I mask
is passed as the transparency mask to
.BR QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptiveDyadicDWT3D (3)
or
.BR QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptivePacketDWT3D (3).
During the process of performing the 3D SA-DWT, the
.I mask
is transformed with a Lazy wavelet transform so as to correctly indicate
where valid coefficients reside in the wavelet domain in the transformed
.IR subband_pyramid .
The transformed mask is return in
.I mask
upon completion of
.BR QccWAVWaveletSubbandPyramid3DShapeAdaptiveDWT() .
.LP
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DInverseShapeAdaptiveDWT()
calls
.BR QccWAVWaveletInverseShapeAdaptiveDyadicDWT3D (3)
or
.BR QccWAVWaveletInverseShapeAdaptivePacketDWT3D (3)
to perform a separable 3D inverse SA-DWT on the
.I volume
field of
.IR subband_pyramid .
The
.IR transform_type
field of
.IR subband_pyramid 
indicates the type (dyadic or wavelet-packet) of transform,
while the numbers of levels of the inverse transform is retrieved from the
.I spatial_num_levels
and
.I temporal_num_levels
fields of
.IR subband_pyramid .
Both
.I spatial_num_levels
and
.I temporal_num_levels
are set to 0 upon return of
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DInverseShapeAdaptiveDWT() .
.I mask
should be the Lazy-wavelet transformed mask that was output by
.BR QccWAVWaveletSubbandPyramid3DShapeAdaptiveDWT() .
Upon return from
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DInverseShapeAdaptiveDWT() ,
.I mask
is the original transparency mask; i.e., the mask that
indicates where valid data resides in the original spatial domain.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
These routines
return 0 on success and 1 on error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptiveDyadicDWT3D (3),
.BR QccWAVWaveletInversShapeAdaptiveDyadicDWT3D (3),
.BR QccWAVWaveletShapeAdaptivePacketDWT3D (3),
.BR QccWAVWaveletInversShapeAdaptivePacketDWT3D (3),
.BR QccWAVWavelet (3),
.BR QccPackWAV (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.LP
S. Li and W. Li, "Shape-Adaptive Discrete Wavelet Transforms for
Arbitrarily Shaped Visual Object Coding,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Coding" ,
vol. 10, pp. 725-743, August 2000.
.LP
ISO/IEC 14496-2, "Information Technology -- Coding of audio-visual objects --
Part 2: Visual," 
.IR "MPEG-4 Standard" ,
Amendment 1, July 2000.
.LP
B.-J. Kim, Z. Xiong, and W. A. Pearlman,
"Low Bit-Rate Scalable Video Coding with 3-D Set Partitioning
in Hierarchical Trees (3-D SPIHT),"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology" ,
vol. 10, no. 8, pp. 1374-1387, December 2000.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.



