.TH QCCWAVZEROTREEMAKEFULLTREE 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccWAVZerotreeMakeFullTree
QccWAVZerotreeMakeEmptyTree
 \- 
create full or empty zerotree structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccWAVZerotreeMakeFullTree(QccWAVZerotree *" zerotree );
.br
.BI "int QccWAVZerotreeMakeEmptyTree(QccWAVZerotree *" zerotree );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.BR QccWAVZerotreeMakeFullTree()
makes
.I zerotree
"full" by marking every symbol in
.I zerotree
as significant; i.e., it sets every node in
.I zerotree
to
.BR QCCWAVZEROTREE_SYMBOLSIGNIFICANT .
.LP
.BR QccWAVZerotreeMakeEmptyTree()
makes
.I zerotree
"empty" by marking every symbol in
.I zerotree
as "null" via a call to
.BR QccWAVZerotreeMakeSymbolNull (3).
.LP
If
.I zerotree
has not been allocated prior to calling these routines,
.BR QccWAVZerotreeAlloc (3)
is called before manipulating the zerotree symbols.
In the case of
.BR QccWAVZerotreeMakeEmptyTree() ,
.BR QccWAVZerotreeMakeFullTree()
is called after allocating so that all zerotree nodes are set to
valid symbols, specifically
.BR QCCWAVZEROTREE_SYMBOLSIGNIFICANT ,
before making them "null".
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
These routines return 0 on success, and 1 on failure.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccWAVZerotree (3),
.BR QccPackWAV (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.LP
J. M. Shapiro,
"Embedded Image Coding Using Zerotrees of Wavelet Coefficients,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing" ,
vol. 41, no. 12, pp. 3445-3462, December 1993.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

