.TH QCCWAVSUBBANDPYRAMID3DINTZEROSUBBAND 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntZeroSubband,
QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntSubtractMean,
QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntAddMean \- 
operations on integer-valued 3D subband pyramids
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntZeroSubband(QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DInt *" subband_pyramid ", int " subband );
.br
.BI "int QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntSubtractMean(QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DInt *" subband_pyramid ", int *" mean ", const QccSQScalarQuantizer *" quantizer );
.br
.BI "int QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntAddMean(QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DInt *" subband_pyramid ", int " mean );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntZeroSubband()
sets the coefficients of the specified
.I subband
in
.I subband_pyramid
to zero.
.I subband
is the subband number of the desired subband.
.LP
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntSubtractMean()
calculates the mean value of the coefficients of the baseband of
.IR subband_pyramid ,
rounds the mean to the nearest integer,
and subtracts the result from the baseband coefficients.
If
.I mean
is
.RB non- NULL ,
the value subtracted from the coefficients (the integer-valued mean)
is returned as
.IR mean .
.LP
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntAddMean()
adds value
.I mean
to all baseband coefficients of
.IR subband_pyramid .
It is intended to implement the reverse 
operation of
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntSubtractMean() ,
so
.I mean
would be returned from this latter routine in most cases.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
These routines return 0 on success, and 1 on failure.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccSQScalarQuantization (3),
.BR QccSQScalarInverseQuantization (3),
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntDWT (3),
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntInverseDWT (3),
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DInt (3),
.BR QccPackWAV (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.LP
A. R. Calderbank, I. Daubechies, W. Sweldens, B.-L. Yeo, "Lossless
Image Compression Using Integer to Integer Wavelet Transforms", in
.IR "Proceedings of the International Conference on Image Processing" ,
Lausanne, Switzerland, pp. 596-599, September 1997.

Z. Xiong, X. Wu, S. Cheng, J. Hua, "Lossy-to-Lossless Compression of
Medical Volumetric Data Using Three-Dimensional Integer Wavelet Transforms,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Medical Imaging" ,
vol. 22, pp. 459-470, March 2003.

B.-J. Kim, Z. Xiong, and W. A. Pearlman,
"Low Bit-Rate Scalable Video Coding with 3-D Set Partitioning
in Hierarchical Trees (3-D SPIHT),"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology" ,
vol. 10, no. 8, pp. 1374-1387, December 2000.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

