.TH QCCWAVFILTERBANKREAD 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccWAVFilterBankRead, QccWAVFilterBankWrite \- 
read and write wavelet filter banks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccWAVFilterBankRead(QccWAVFilterBank *" filter_bank );
.br
.BI "int QccWAVFilterBankWrite(const QccWAVFilterBank *" filter_bank );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B QccWAVFilterBankRead()
reads a 
.B QccWAVFilterBank
structure from a file; the filename of the 
.BR FBK -format
file to be read must be stored as
.IR filter_bank->filename .
If the orthogonality of the filter bank is
.BR QCCWAVFILTERBANK_ORTHOGONAL ,
only the primary filter
is present in the file.
This set of filter coefficients is read from the
file, and
.BR QccWAVFilterBankMakeOrthogonal (3)
is called to construct the remaining filters of the orthogonal filter bank.
If the orthogonality of the filter bank is
.BR QCCWAVFILTERBANK_BIORTHOGONAL ,
the primary and dual filters
are present in the file.
These sets of filter coefficients are read from the file, and
.BR QccWAVFilterBankMakeBiorthogonal (3)
is called to construct the remaining filters of the biorthogonal filter bank.
Finally, if the orthogonality of the filter bank is
.BR QCCWAVFILTERBANK_GENERAL ,
all four filters are present in and read from the file.
.B QccWAVFilterBankRead()
handles all necessary allocation of memory for the storing of the
filter coefficients.
Reading of all filter coefficients is accomplished via call(s) to
.BR QccFilterRead (3).
.LP
.B QccWAVFilterBankWrite()
writes a
.B QccWAVFilterBank
structure to a file; the filename of the 
.BR FBK -format
file to be written must be stored as
.IR filter_bank->filename .
If the orthogonality of the filter bank is
.BR QCCWAVFILTERBANK_ORTHOGONAL ,
only the primary filter
(lowpass synthesis filter)
is written to the file.
If the orthogonality of the filter bank is
.BR QCCWAVFILTERBANK_BIORTHOGONAL ,
the primary and dual filters
(lowpass synthesis and
lowpass analysis filter, respectively)
are written to the file.
Finally, if the orthogonality of the filter bank is
.BR QCCWAVFILTERBANK_GENERAL ,
all four filters are written to the file.
Writing of all filter coefficients is accomplished via call(s) to
.BR QccFilterWrite (3).
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Both
.BR QccWAVFilterBankRead()
and
.BR QccWAVFilterBankWrite()
return 0 on success and 1 on error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccWAVFilterBankMakeOrthogonal (3),
.BR QccWAVFilterBankMakeBiorthogonal (3),
.BR QccWAVFilterBank (3),
.BR QccPackWAV (3),
.BR QccFilterRead (3),
.BR QccFilterWrite (3),
.BR QccFilter (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.LP
M. Antonini, M. Barlaud, P. Mathieu, and I. Daubechies,
"Image Coding Using Wavelet Transform,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Image Processing" ,
vol. 1, pp. 205-220, April 1992.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.



