.TH QCCWAVFILTERBANKMAKEORTHOGONAL 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccWAVFilterBankMakeOrthogonal, QccWAVFilterBankMakeBiorthogonal \- 
construct orthogonal and biorthogonal filter banks
given a set of coefficient for the primary filter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccWAVFilterBankMakeOrthogonal(QccWAVFilterBank *" filter_bank ", const QccFilter *" primary_filter );
.br
.BI "int QccWAVFilterBankMakeBiorthogonal(QccWAVFilterBank *" filter_bank ", const QccFilter *" primary_filter ", const QccFilter *" dual_filter );
.br
.BI "int QccWAVFilterBankBiorthogonal(const QccWAVFilterBank *" filter_bank );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B QccWAVFilterBankMakeOrthogonal
constructs an orthogonal wavelet filter bank
using the set of coefficients given by
.IR primary_filter ;
that is,
.I primary_filter
is the lowpass synthesis filter (scaling filter),
.IR h[n] ,
of the wavelet filter bank.
The other three filters necessary for the filter bank are constructed from
.IR h[n] .
Specifically,
the lowpass analysis filter is
.IR h[-n] ,
the highpass synthesis filter (wavelet filter) is
.IR "g[n] = (-(-1)^n) * h[N - 1 - n]" ,
and the highpass analysis filter is
.IR g[-n] .
Here,
.I N
is
.IR  primary_filter->length ,
the length of the filters.
Note that
.I primary_filter
must be causal
(i.e., 
.I primary_filter->causality
=
.BR QCCFILTER_CAUSAL )
or an error will be returned.
.LP
.B QccWAVFilterBankMakeBiorthogonal()
constructs a biorthogonal
wavelet filter bank using the sets of coefficients given by
.I primary_filter
and
.IR dual_filter .
.I primary_filter
is the primary filter of the biorthogonal filter bank, i.e.,
the lowpass synthesis filter (primary scaling filter).
.I dual_filter
is the dual filter of the biorthogonal filter bank, i.e.,
the lowpass analysis filter (dual scaling filter).
Both
.I primary_filter
and
.I dual_filter
must be symmetric
(i.e., 
.I primary_filter->causality
=
.BR QCCFILTER_SYMMETRIC 
and likewise for
.IR dual_filter )
or an error will be returned.
The highpass synthesis and highpass analysis filters
and constructed using "alternate sign flip" from
.I primary_filter
and
.IR dual_filter .
.LP
For both of these routines,
.IR filter_bank
is first allocated via a call to
.BR QccWAVFilterBankAlloc (3)
and then the four filters are stored in the appropriate fields of
.IR filter_bank .
.LP
.BR QccWAVFilterBankBiorthogonal()
returns 1 if 
.I filter_bank
is a biorthogonal filter bank, and 0 if it is not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccFilter (3),
.BR QccWAVFilterBank (3),
.BR QccPackWAV (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.LP
M. Antonini, M. Barlaud, P. Mathieu, and I. Daubechies,
"Image Coding Using Wavelet Transform,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Image Processing" ,
vol. 1, pp. 205-220, April 1992.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.



