.TH QCCWAVSUBBANDPYRAMID3DZEROSUBBAND 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DZeroSubband,
QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DSubtractMean,
QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DAddMean \- 
operations on 3D subband pyramids
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DZeroSubband(QccWAVSubbandPyramid3D *" subband_pyramid ", int " subband );
.br
.BI "int QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DSubtractMean(QccWAVSubbandPyramid3D *" subband_pyramid ", double *" mean ", const QccSQScalarQuantizer *" quantizer );
.br
.BI "int QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DAddMean(QccWAVSubbandPyramid3D *" subband_pyramid ", double " mean );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DZeroSubband()
sets the coefficients of the specified
.I subband
in
.I subband_pyramid
to zero.
.I subband
is the subband number of the desired subband.
.LP
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DSubtractMean()
calculates the mean value of the coefficients of the baseband of
.IR subband_pyramid ,
optionally quantizes it with a scalar
.IR quantizer ,
and subtracts the result from the baseband coefficients.
If
.I quantizer
is
.RB non- NULL ,
.BR QccSQScalarQuantization (3) 
and
.BR QccSQScalarInverseQuantization (3)
are called in succession to quantize the calculated mean, and this
quantized mean is subtracted from
the baseband coefficients in
.IR subband_pyramid .
If
.I quantizer
is
.BR NULL ,
no quantization is performed so that the calculated mean is subtracted
directly.
If
.I mean
is
.RB non- NULL ,
the value subtracted from the coefficients (either the mean or the
quantized mean) is returned as
.IR mean .
.LP
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DAddMean()
adds value
.I mean
to all baseband coefficients of
.IR subband_pyramid .
It is intended to implement the reverse 
operation of
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DSubtractMean() ,
so
.I mean
would be returned from this latter routine in most cases.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
These routines return 0 on success, and 1 on failure.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccSQScalarQuantization (3),
.BR QccSQScalarInverseQuantization (3),
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DDWT (3),
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DInverseDWT (3),
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid3D (3),
.BR QccPackWAV (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.LP
B.-J. Kim, Z. Xiong, and W. A. Pearlman,
"Low Bit-Rate Scalable Video Coding with 3-D Set Partitioning
in Hierarchical Trees (3-D SPIHT),"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology" ,
vol. 10, no. 8, pp. 1374-1387, December 2000.
.LP
M. Antonini, M. Barlaud, P. Mathieu, and I. Daubechies,
"Image Coding Using Wavelet Transform,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Image Processing" ,
vol. 1, pp. 205-220, April 1992.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

