.TH QCCWAVSUBBANDPYRAMIDREAD 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccWAVSubbandPyramidRead, QccWAVSubbandPyramidWrite \- 
read/write subband pyramid to/from file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccWAVSubbandPyramidRead(QccWAVSubbandPyramid *" subband_pyramid );
.br
.BI "int QccWAVSubbandPyramidWrite(const QccWAVSubbandPyramid *" subband_pyramid );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B QccWAVSubbandPyramidRead()
reads a 
.B QccWAVSubbandPyramid
structure from a file; the filename of the 
.BR SBP -format
file to be read must be stored as
.IR subband_pyramid->filename .
.LP
.B QccWAVSubbandPyramidWrite()
writes a
.B QccWAVSubbandPyramid
structure to a file; the filename of the 
.BR SBP -format
file to be written must be stored as
.IR subband_pyramid->filename .
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Both
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramidRead()
and
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramidWrite()
return 0 on success and 1 on error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid (3),
.BR QccPackWAV (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.LP
M. Antonini, M. Barlaud, P. Mathieu, and I. Daubechies,
"Image Coding Using Wavelet Transform,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Image Processing" ,
vol. 1, pp. 205-220, April 1992.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.



