.TH QCCWAVWAVELETLWT3D 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccWAVWaveletLWT3D, QccWAVWaveletInverseLWT3D \-
forward and inverse separable 3D lazy wavelet transform
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccWAVWaveletLWT3D(const QccVolume " input_volume ", QccVolume " output_volume ", int " num_frames ", int " num_rows ", int " num_cols ", int " origin_frame ", int " origin_row ", int " origin_col ", int " subsample_pattern_frame ", int " subsample_pattern_row ", int " subsample_pattern_col );
.br
.BI "int QccWAVInverseWaveletLWT3D(const QccVolume " input_volume ", QccVolume " output_volume ", int " num_frames ", int " num_rows ", int " num_cols ", int " origin_frame ", int " origin_row ", int " origin_col ", int " subsample_pattern_frame ", int " subsample_pattern_row ", int " subsample_pattern_col );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B QccWAVWaveletLWT3D()
implements a separable lazy wavelet transform (LWT).
Essentially, the
.I input_volume
is partitioned into eight subsets:
the even-frame-even-row-even-column samples,
the even-frame-even-row-odd-column samples,
the even-frame-odd-row-even-column samples,
the even-frame-odd-row-odd-column samples,
the odd-frame-even-row-even-column samples,
the odd-frame-even-row-odd-column samples,
the odd-frame-odd-row-even-column samples, and
the odd-frame-odd-row-odd-column samples.
These eight subsets lie in the eight octants of
.IR output_volume .
.LP
.IR origin_frame ,
.IR origin_row ,
and
.I origin_col
give the frame, row, and column index numbers
of the upper-corner sample of
.IR input_volume 
and are used to determine the phases of subsampling in each
level of the signal decomposition.
In most cases,
.I input_volume
starts at (0, 0, 0), so
.IR origin_frame ,
.IR origin_row ,
and
.I origin_col
are all 0.
.LP
.IR subsample_pattern_frame ,
.IR subsample_pattern_row ,
and
.I subsample_pattern_col
may be either
.B QCCWAVWAVELET_PHASE_EVEN
or
.BR QCCWAVWAVELET_PHASE_ODD ,
indicating whether even- or odd-phase subsampling is desired
along each frame, row, and column, respectively.
In the usual case, even subsampling is normally used.
.LP
In the case that
.I num_frames
is even, all eight "subbands" of the LWT
have the same number of frames.  On the other hand, if
.I num_frames
is odd, four of the eight subbands will be one frame longer
than the others. Which subbands will be longer will depend on
whether 
.IR origin_frame 
is odd or even.
Likewise,
.IR num_rows
and
.IR origin_rows ,
and
.I num_cols
and
.IR origin_col ,
determine if the subbands have the same number of rows and columns,
respectively, and
which ones are wider if not.
.LP
.BR QccWAVWaveletLWT3D()
is implemented as a separable decomposition using 1D LWTs via calls
to
.BR QccWAVWaveletLWT ()
and 2D LWTs via calls to
.BR QccWAVWaveletLWT2D ().
.LP
.BR QccWAVWaveletInverseLWT3D()
performs the opposite operation as
.BR QccWAVWaveletLWT3D() .
That is, the subbands are extracted from
.I input_volume
and "interleaved" to produce
.IR output_volume .
.LP
For both of these routines,
.I output_volume
must be allocated to sufficient size before calling the routine.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Both
.BR QccWAVWaveletLWT3D()
and
.BR QccWAVWaveletInverseLWT3D()
return 0 on success and 1 on error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccWAVWaveletLWT (3),
.BR QccWAVWaveletInverseLWT (3),
.BR QccWAVWaveletLWT2D (3),
.BR QccWAVWaveletInverseLWT2D (3),
.BR QccPackWAV (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.LP
I. Daubechies and W. Sweldens,
"Factoring Wavelet Transforms Into Lifting Steps,"
.IR "J. Fourier Anal. Appl." ,
vol. 4, no. 3, pp. 245-267, 1998.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.



