.TH QCCWAVSUBBANDPYRAMID3DINTDWT 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntDWT, QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntInverseDWT \- 
separable 3D discrete wavelet transform and inverse transform
for integer-valued subband-pyramid data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntDWT(QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DInt *" subband_pyramid ", int " transform_type ", int " temporal_num_levels ", int " spatial_num_levels ", const QccWAVWavelet *" wavelet );
.br
.BI "int QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntInverseDWT(QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DInt *" subband_pyramid ", const QccWAVWavelet *" wavelet );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntDWT()
performs a separable 3D discrete wavelet transform (DWT) on the
.I volume
field of
.IR subband_pyramid .
.IR transform_type
determines whether the transform is a dyadic or wavelet-packet
decomposition. For a dyadic decomposition,
.IR transform_type
should be
.BR QCCWAVSUBBANDPYRAMID3DINT_DYADIC ;
for a wavelet-packet decomposition,
.IR transform_type
should be
.BR QCCWAVSUBBANDPYRAMID3DINT_PACKET .
.B QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntDWT()
implements the wavelet transform with a call to
.BR QccWAVWaveletDyadicDWT3DInt (3)
or
.BR QccWAVWaveletPacketDWT3DInt (3)
as appropriate.
.LP
If a dyadic decomposition is chosen
.RI ( transform_type
equal to
.BR QCCWAVSUBBANDPYRAMID3DINT_DYADIC ),
.I spatial_num_levels
and
.I temporal_num_levels
must be set to the same value which indicates
the number of levels (scales) of dyadic decomposition to perform.
In this case, both the 
.I spatial_num_levels
and
.I temporal_num_levels
fields of
.I subband_pyramid
are set to this value.
Alternatively, if a wavelet-packet decomposition is chosen
.RI ( transform_type
equal to
.BR QCCWAVSUBBANDPYRAMID3DINT_PACKET ),
then
.I spatial_num_levels
and
.I temporal_num_levels
may be different and indicate the number of spatial decompositions and
temporal decompositions, respectively, performed when
calculating the wavelet-packet transform.
.LP
The
.IR origin_frame ,
.IR origin_row ,
.IR origin_col ,
.IR subsample_pattern_frame ,
.IR subsample_pattern_row ,
and
.IR subsample_pattern_col
parameters as needed for
.BR QccWAVWaveletDyadicDWT3DInt (3)
or
.BR QccWAVWaveletPacketDWT3DInt (3)
are extracted from the corresponding fields of
.IR subband_pyramid .
.LP
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntInverseDWT()
calls
.BR QccWAVWaveletInverseDyadicDWT3DInt (3)
or
.BR QccWAVWaveletInversePacketDWT3DInt (3)
to perform a separable 3D inverse DWT on the
.I volume
field of
.IR subband_pyramid .
The
.IR transform_type
field of
.IR subband_pyramid 
indicates the type (dyadic or wavelet-packet) of transform,
while the numbers of levels of the inverse transform is retrieved from the
.I spatial_num_levels
and
.I temporal_num_levels
fields of
.IR subband_pyramid .
Both
.I spatial_num_levels
and
.I temporal_num_levels
are set to 0 upon return of
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid3DIntInverseDWT().
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
These routines
return 0 on success and 1 on error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccWAVWaveletDyadicDWT3DInt (3),
.BR QccWAVWaveletInverseDyadicDWT3DInt (3),
.BR QccWAVWaveletPacketDWT3DInt (3),
.BR QccWAVWaveletInversePacketDWT3DInt (3),
.BR QccWAVWavelet (3),
.BR QccPackWAV (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.LP
A. R. Calderbank, I. Daubechies, W. Sweldens, B.-L. Yeo, "Lossless
Image Compression Using Integer to Integer Wavelet Transforms", in
.IR "Proceedings of the International Conference on Image Processing" ,
Lausanne, Switzerland, pp. 596-599, September 1997.

Z. Xiong, X. Wu, S. Cheng, J. Hua, "Lossy-to-Lossless Compression of
Medical Volumetric Data Using Three-Dimensional Integer Wavelet Transforms,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Medical Imaging" ,
vol. 22, pp. 459-470, March 2003.

B.-J. Kim, Z. Xiong, and W. A. Pearlman,
"Low Bit-Rate Scalable Video Coding with 3-D Set Partitioning
in Hierarchical Trees (3-D SPIHT),"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology" ,
vol. 10, no. 8, pp. 1374-1387, December 2000.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.



