.TH QCCWAVSUBBANDPYRAMIDCOPY 3 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
QccWAVSubbandPyramidCopy \- 
copy subband pyramid
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "libQccPack.h"
.sp
.BI "int QccWAVSubbandPyramidCopy(QccWAVSubbandPyramid *" subband_pyramid1 ", const QccWAVSubbandPyramid *" subband_pyramid2 );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramidCopy()
copies the contexts of
.I subband_pyramid2
to
.IR subband_pyramid1 .
If
.I subband_pyramid1
is not allocated prior to the call to
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramidCopy() ,
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramidAlloc (3)
is called to allocate
.I subband_pryamid1
to the same size as
.IR subband_pyramid2 .
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
This routine returns 0 on success, and 1 on failure.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramidAlloc (3),
.BR QccWAVSubbandPyramid (3),
.BR QccPackWAV (3),
.BR QccPack (3)
.LP
M. Antonini, M. Barlaud, P. Mathieu, and I. Daubechies,
"Image Coding Using Wavelet Transform,"
.IR "IEEE Transactions on Image Processing" ,
vol. 1, pp. 205-220, April 1992.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them an.or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

