.TH SQDECODE 1 "QCCPACK" ""
.SH NAME
sqdecode \- scalar-quantization decoding
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sqdecode
.RB "[\|" \-d
.IR  vector\_dimension "\|]"
.I channel
.I quantizer
.I datfile
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-d " vector\_dimension"
Integer. Selects dimension of output
.IR datfile .
Default value is 1.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B sqdecode
decodes the input channel,
.IR channel ,
(CHN format) by looking up each channel index
in the input scalar quantizer,
.IR quantizer,
(SQ format) and outputting the corresponding
quantizer level to the output
.I datfile 
(DAT format).
The channel is produced with
.BR sqencode (1),
and the channel symbols are assumed to range from 0 to N-1, where N is the
number of codewords in 
.IR quantizer .
.LP
.I datfile
may contain vectors, in general.  The switch
.B \-d
consequently determines the vector dimension of
.IR datfile .
In the event that
.I vector\_dimension
does not equal 1,
.I vector\_dimension
channel symbols are collected (in order) and output to
.I datfile
as one vector.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sqencode (1),
.BR QccPackSQ (3),
.BR QccPack (3)

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1997-2016  James E. Fowler
.\"  The programs herein are free software; you can redistribute them and/or
.\"  modify them under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"  
.\"  These programs are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with these programs; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
